How to improve credit score and borrow money<>I had to apply for an American Express card, which was also rejected.   Then I had searched for a Marbles Credit Card Stop applying for credit cards\/loans. Doing so is just making your credit rating worse. Credit agencies will downgrade your credit rating if they see lots of signs of credit checking. It's a sign you're desperately looking for credit, which you are...! 44.9% APR This is very expensive credit. You can get personal loans on the high street for 3-4%. 44.9% is really bad value. You're simply going to make the situation worse. Am I taking off a loan from website as amingos loans to help me build   up my credit rating Again this is 44% interest! You also need a guarantor. So you're not only going to get yourself in trouble but a family member too: don't do this! This will only help your credit rating if you pay it back successfully, which given your situation seems like a risk. Contact the Money Advice Service or the National Debt Line. Explain your situation in detail to them. They are a government-backed service designed for people in your situation. They will offer practical advice and can even help negotiate with your creditors, etc. Here's some general advice about getting out of debt from Money Saving Expert Traditional debt help says 'never borrow your way out of a debt   problem'. But this ignores the varying cost of different debts. The MoneySaving approach is: \"Never borrow more to get out of a   debt problem.\"<>There are a few steps you can take to improve your credit score and increase your chances of being approved for a loan or other type of credit:Pay your bills on time: Payment history is a major factor in your credit score, so it's important to pay all of your bills on time. If you have a history of missing payments or paying late, it's time to start paying on time.Reduce your credit card balances: High balances on your credit cards can lower your credit score, so it's important to keep your balances as low as possible. Aim to keep your balances at 30% or less of your credit limit.Don't apply for too much new credit at once: Every time you apply for credit, it shows up as a hard inquiry on your credit report, which can temporarily lower your credit score. Try to avoid applying for too much new credit at once.Check your credit report regularly: It's important to check your credit report regularly to make sure there are no errors or fraudulent activity that could be impacting your credit score. You can get a free copy of your credit report from each of the three major credit reporting agencies (Experian, TransUnion, and Equifax) once a year.Consider credit repair: If you have a low credit score due to errors or negative information on your credit report, you may want to consider working with a credit repair company to help you improve your score.By following these steps, you can work to improve your credit score and increase your chances of being approved for a loan or other credit. However, keep in mind that there is no quick fix for a low credit score and it may take time and effort to see significant improvement.","Improving your credit score is important because it can affect your ability to borrow money and the terms on which you can borrow. Here are some steps you can take to improve your credit score:Pay your bills on time: Payment history is the most important factor in your credit score, so make sure to pay all your bills on time, every time.Use credit responsibly: Use credit responsibly by keeping your balances low and using a diverse mix of credit accounts, such as a mortgage, a car loan, and a credit card.Check your credit report: Make sure the information on your credit report is accurate. If you find any errors, dispute them with the credit bureau.Limit new credit: Don't apply for too much new credit at once, as this can lower your credit score.Be patient: Improving your credit score takes time, so don't expect to see major improvements overnight. It may take several months or even years to see significant changes in your credit score.It's also important to shop around for the best terms when borrowing money. Look for lenders who offer the lowest interest rates and fees, and consider applying for a secured loan if you have collateral to offer, such as a car or a home.<>finance