Why do computer manufacturers still include USB 2.0 ports alongside 3.0 ports ? If they 've already got a USB 3.0 chip in there , and 3.0 is obviously backwards compatible , what 's the benefit to them of limiting some ports to the 2.0 standard ? Please explain like I'm five.<>There are a few reasons you still see USB 2.0 alongside USB 3.0 . 1 ) The Input \/ output chip found on Intel computers ( Which is most computers you buy ) only provides 6 USB 3.0 ports on desktops and 2 on mobile . This is a big limiter . 2 ) It increases design complexity , there are 9 wires in 3.0 vs 4 in 2.0 . Multiply that difference by how many ports we have 3.0 over 2.0 and you end up with a bunch of extra space used just for wiring . Going above the 6or 2 from 1 ) and you 're adding extra chips and even more wiring yet . 3 ) It costs more for the manufacturer to add more USB 3.0 . Each of those chips to add USB 3.0 ports costs around 5 - 7 $ , each adding 2 ports , or around 10 $ if it adds 4 ports . 4 ) For the added cost and complexity , the majority of uses for USB ports do n't need the extra speed . Input devices , various adapters , even USB sticks tend to be more than happy with what USB 2.0 can provide . Mass transfer to external hard drives , SSDs or high performance USB sticks are almost the entirety of devices that benefit from USB 3.0 . More than 2 of these wo n't be used at a time very often . 5 ) More USB 3.0 add - on controllers will take bandwidth away from other parts of the system . Add too many and something will need to give out , such as running your GPU with half it 's normal bandwidth or lowering internal expansion . 6 ) Legacy , modern Windows 8 or 8.1 tend to be happy to work on USB 3.0 out of the box ( especially with the built in Intel or AMD ports ) but Windows 7 , various Linux distributions or tools that run outside of Windows wo n't always work .<>There are a few reasons why computer manufacturers might include USB 2.0 ports alongside USB 3.0 ports: 1. Cost: Including both types of ports might be more cost-effective for the manufacturer, as they can use the same components for both types of ports. 2. Compatibility: Some older devices, such as printers and keyboards, may only be compatible with USB 2.0 ports. By including both types of ports, manufacturers can make sure that their computers are compatible with a wider range of devices. 3. Convenience: Some people may have a large number of USB 2.0 devices, such as external hard drives or flash drives, that they use regularly. By including both types of ports, manufacturers can make it easier for these people to use their devices without having to buy adapters or new devices. 4. Legacy support: Some older computers may have only USB 2.0 ports, so by including both types of ports on newer computers, manufacturers can make it easier for people to use their older devices with newer computers. Overall, including both types of USB ports can make it easier for people to use a wide range of devices with their computers, and can be more cost-effective for the manufacturer.<>reddit_eli5