Why do so many poor people vote republican ? would n't they benefit more from voting democratic ? I know this sounds like a stupid question and there are other issues that go beyond the economy ... but i still ca n't wrap my head around it . Please explain like I'm five.<>Marketing . Republicans have been very skillful in marketing themselves as the party of the \" average Joe \" while painting the Democrats as the party of the \" liberal elite . \"<>There are a few different reasons why some poor people might vote for Republican candidates, despite the fact that Democratic candidates might seem more likely to support policies that would benefit the poor economically. Here are a few possibilities:Different priorities: Some people might prioritize issues other than economic policies when they vote, such as social issues, foreign policy, or national security. They might believe that the Republican Party is better on these issues, even if it might not be as supportive of economic policies that would benefit the poor.Personal beliefs: Some people might have personal beliefs or values that align more with the Republican Party, even if those beliefs don't necessarily align with their economic interests. For example, someone who is very religious might prioritize issues like abortion or same-sex marriage over economic policies when they vote.Loyalty to a party: Some people might be loyal to a particular party and vote for its candidates no matter what, even if they don't agree with all of the party's positions. This can be especially true if someone has always voted for a particular party and their family and friends also support that party.Skepticism of government: Some people might believe that the government is not effective at solving problems and that it is better to rely on personal responsibility and the free market rather than government programs. They might therefore prefer the Republican Party, which is generally more skeptical of government intervention.It's also worth noting that the Democratic and Republican parties are complex organizations with a range of different positions on various issues. While one party might be seen as generally more supportive of the poor, there might be individual candidates within that party who don't prioritize those issues, or even candidates from the other party who do prioritize them. So, it's not always a straightforward decision for people to make when they vote.<>reddit_eli5