Can a high down-payment on a house offset the need for proof of income?<>It's difficult to provide an exact answer as this will very much depend on the bank & the local regulatory scheme.  However as a business owner you should be able to provide incorporation docs, some proof of ownership of the company and last years' financial statements or tax returns, many banks would accept this as a proof of income for the purposes of granting credit. In general in most jurisdictions I can think of, a high downpayment will not remove the need to verify income as the bank needs to feel comfortable that you have the ability to pay the remaining 25% (e.g. how do they know you're not a serially unemployed lottery winner) and if the downpayment is quite large they may want some assurance that you got the money legally (e.g. how do they make sure you're not a drug dealer). So probably regardless of how large a downpayment most banks would probably want some additional proofs of income however what proofs are needed may be more flexible than just a salary stub. I suggest taking a look at what sort of documents you may have on hand that can serve to validate your revenue in some way and contacting a few banks directly to see what options they can provide and whether some custom-tailored arrangement can be made.<>It is possible that a high down payment on a house could be a factor that a lender considers when evaluating a loan application, but it is not typically sufficient on its own to offset the need for proof of income. Lenders generally require borrowers to demonstrate their ability to repay a mortgage loan by providing documentation of their income, employment, and credit history. This is because the lender needs to be confident that the borrower has the financial resources to make the required monthly mortgage payments and meet their other financial obligations.A high down payment can be seen as a sign of financial stability and can potentially reduce the lender's risk in providing a mortgage loan. However, it is not a substitute for demonstrating the borrower's ability to repay the loan through proof of income. In order to qualify for a mortgage, borrowers will typically need to provide documentation of their income, such as pay stubs, tax returns, and proof of employment.<>finance