Why do n't some other company produce sodium thiopental if others refuse to provide it for executions ? It seems that any chemical company would be able to make sodium thiopental . What is stopping it being made from somewhere else in the US ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Best guess : Poor ROI . To make any chemical substance , you need to set up a lot of equipment . This means buying new equipment , renting a place to put it , and staffing a team . My best guess is that investors are wary of investing in a chemical project that only produces one very controversial drug . The last company that made it stopped for brand image reasons , and there is constant political pressure for primary consumers to stop purchasing . Likely , they have found safer investments with higher returns instead .<>Sodium thiopental, also known as pentothal, is a controlled substance that is regulated by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). In order to produce, distribute, or sell controlled substances in the United States, a company must be registered with the DEA and obtain a license. Obtaining a license to produce a controlled substance like sodium thiopental requires meeting certain requirements and demonstrating that the company has the necessary facilities, equipment, and personnel to produce the substance safely and in compliance with federal regulations. There are also ethical considerations involved in the production and use of sodium thiopental for lethal injection in executions. Many chemical companies do not want to be associated with the death penalty, and some have chosen not to produce or supply the drug for this purpose. Additionally, the production of controlled substances can be a complex and expensive process, and it may not be financially viable for a company to produce sodium thiopental for the small market of states that use it for executions. In summary, there are legal and ethical factors that may prevent other companies from producing sodium thiopental for use in executions in the United States.<>reddit_eli5