Are all those buttons on airplanes and spaceships necessary ? Inside the cockpit there are like a million buttons and switches ; surely the pilots do n't utlize all of them . So what is their purpose ? Explain like I'm five.<>Pilot here , although not a jet pilot . Pilots learn to fly on simple aircraft with one engine . Even these simple aircraft , for the most part , have the same six basic flight instruments . When you first start learning to fly , you do n't use the instruments at all . You do everything by looking out the window . In the first few lessons , though , you will start learning to use the instruments to check your height , your heading ( the direction you 're flying ) and your speed . You also learn to use the engine instruments - the rpm gauge shows how fast the engine is going , and there are temperature , pressure and fuel gauges . You learn to use the radio - possibly the only radio in the aircraft , too . For flying a simple aircraft in good weather , that 's all you need . Then , as you train to become a jet pilot , you learn to fly more and more complex aircraft in more difficult weather . In bad weather , you will be constantly referring to all six of the flight instruments . Instead of a single radio , you might need two radios for communication , and four or five different radios for navigating . But the basic layout is exactly the same as what you first learnt to fly on . More complex engines have more gauges . If you fly an aircraft with two engines , there 'll be two sets of all of the gauges . But you 've still got the same basic instruments as when you first learnt to fly . Gradually , you move on to more and more complex aircraft , and you need controls for the pressurisation , controls for the electrics and hydraulics , controls for the cabin lighting and the toilets and the in - flight entertainment . But the same basic instruments are still in front of you ( although there are two sets of them now , because each pilot will have his own set of instruments ) . I 've never flown a jet . But I can look at the cockpit of a jet , and find most of the controls , instruments and gauges I 'd need to fly it within a few seconds . There are a few that I 'd have to hunt for a bit longer .... but that 's why pilots have to spend weeks learning to fly the specific aircraft they 're going to work on , even after they 've got their pilots license . TL;DR - Yes , they use them all to some extent or another , but the key instruments are the same in every aircraft . And a note for accuracy : I 've referred to the six basic flight instruments a few times , but every new jet has , for many years , shown all these instruments on a computer screen , rather than having discrete instruments , and this is becoming more common on small training aircraft too . This layout is known as a \" glass cockpit \" .<>There are many buttons and switches in the cockpit of an airplane or spaceship because pilots need to be able to control and monitor a variety of different systems and functions. Some of these buttons and switches control things like the engines, the flaps on the wings, and the landing gear. Others are used to communicate with air traffic control or to navigate the aircraft. Still others are used to monitor the various systems on the aircraft and ensure that everything is working properly. While it may seem like there are a lot of buttons and switches, each one serves a specific purpose and is important for the safe and successful operation of the aircraft.<>reddit_eli5