What does is feel like to have a seizure ? My dad has had a couple seizures and I 'm just wondering what it feels like to have a seizure . Please explain like I'm five.<>There are many different types of seizures , all of which probably feel very different . But , I can tell you about the one I had . I was sitting at the computer and everything suddenly started tilting and sliding . From my perspective it was like the entire room just suddenly tilted and slid to the right . Looking back later , I realize that I was falling out of my chair , but I could n't feel my body so I did n't know I was actually falling . One of my relatives was there and I remember seeing his face above me ( I did n't know at the time , but I was lying on the ground ) . I desperately wanted to tell him that I was okay , so I tried forming the words , but I could n't say anything . In that moment I felt terrified because , if I could n't even * say * that I was okay , clearly I was not okay , and something was horribly wrong . I remember that I could n't even tell if my mouth was open or closed , or where anything was , it was incredibly confusing . I later learned that my relative had stuck his hand in my mouth to prevent me from swallowing my tongue ( which is not actually recommended now , I do n't think , but was something he had heard to do ) . To this day I do n't know if I was just laying there completely still or if my body was seizing and thrashing around . I never asked , no one ever told me , and I had no feeling in my body for the entire episode . It lasted about thirty seconds , probably . This happened over ten years ago so the memories are probably a bit fuzzy .<>Seizures can feel different for different people. Some people might feel confused or scared during a seizure, while others might not remember having a seizure at all. During a seizure, a person's body might shake or jerk. This happens because the brain is sending strange signals to the muscles. Some people might lose consciousness during a seizure, which means they might not be able to hear or see what is happening around them. Seizures usually only last a few minutes, but they can be scary for the person having the seizure and for the people around them. It's important to stay calm and try to help the person having the seizure if you can.<>reddit_eli5