How does the NBA draft work ? I 'm Australian and drafts are n't done over here so it 's a completely foreign subject . Over here , teams just offer people a place on spot much like you might be offered a job in the real world . Please explain like I'm five.<>The draft exists in the interest of competitive balance . The NBA wants all 30 of its teams to offer a product to fans worth selling , and that ca n't happen if incoming players are free to sign contracts with whichever team they want . The good players would be more likely to sign with teams that are already good , or teams that are in bigger markets . The skill gap between the top 5 % of NBA players and the bottom 95 % is simply too large to allow all the best players to go on a few teams . So the basic idea is that all teams go through the draft before free agent signings , and they can use the draft to obtain the exclusive right to sign a player . And the order that teams go in the draft is largely determined by the reverse standings from the previous season ( so the worst team in the NBA from the previous season is guaranteed a very high spot in the draft , which means they can select a player they think will be very good ) . Obviously , there are ways to change draft order ; there 's a lottery now , so the worst team is n't guaranteed the top spot in the next draft , and teams can also choose to trade away their picks in upcoming drafts . But most spots do n't change . So if a team selects a player in the draft , they have the exclusive right to sign a contract with that player ( I believe that right lasts for one year ) . And players almost always sign a contract with the team that drafts them - higher draft picks get bigger contracts , after all , as well as being able to play on a team where they probably wo n't be overshadowed by another player .<>Sure! The NBA draft is an annual event that takes place in the United States where the teams in the National Basketball Association (NBA) can select new players to join their team. The teams are allowed to choose players who are eligible for the draft, which usually includes college basketball players and international players.The teams are not allowed to just offer players a spot on their team like you mentioned. Instead, the teams take turns selecting players in a specific order. The order is determined by the team's record in the previous season, with the team that had the worst record getting to pick first and the team that made it the furthest in the playoffs picking last.The players who are selected in the draft become part of the team that picked them and are able to play in the NBA. This is a really big deal for a lot of players because it gives them the opportunity to play professional basketball and make a lot of money doing it.I hope that helps explain it a bit! Do you have any more questions about the NBA draft?<>reddit_eli5