Q. What are the chances of HIV transmission through mosquitoes?Hello doctor,Regarding the transmission of HIV by mosquitoes, I have following query. I know the virus does not survive in insects, but what if some mosquito bites a very high viral load HIV-infected person and then bites an uninfected person on his wound, who crushes it on his wound. If the above situation happens at three or four places on his body simultaneously by an HIV-infected mosquito, what is the possibility of HIV transmission by this method?<>Hi. It is good that you have an interest in HIV transmission. Hope your query is answered, but if you have any other question, please do not hesitate to ask or call anytime. For more information consult an HIV AIDS specialist online --> https:\/\/icliniq.com.\/ask-a-doctor-online\/HIV-AIDS-specialist<>beyonddcdcdcdc@163.com\nQ. What are the chances of HIV transmission through mosquitoes?Hello doctor,Regarding the transmission of HIV by mosquitoes, I have following query. I know the virus does not survive in insects, but what if some mosquito bites a very high viral load HIV-infected person and then bites an uninfected person on his wound, who crushes it on his wound. If the above situation happens at three or four places on his body simultaneously by an HIV-infected mosquito, what is the possibility of HIV transmission by this method?\nThere is no risk of HIV transmission through mosquitoes. HIV is a virus that affects humans and other primates, and it cannot replicate or survive in the bodies of insects such as mosquitoes. Mosquitoes do not transmit HIV when they bite humans.\n\nIn fact, HIV cannot survive outside the body for very long. The virus is fragile and is easily damaged by exposure to air, heat, and light. Therefore, it is not possible for HIV to be transmitted through mosquitoes or any other type of insect.\n\nIt is important to note that HIV is primarily transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, such as blood, semen, vaginal secretions, and breast milk. The most common ways to contract HIV are through sexual contact, sharing needles, and mother-to-child transmission during childbirth or breastfeeding. It is important to practice safe sex, avoid sharing needles, and get tested regularly to reduce the risk of HIV transmission.<>medicine