What makes a \" lossy \" file lossy ? Are there certain file types that are less lossy than others ? Are any \" lossless \" files perfectly lossless ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Here is a very simplified example . Suppose you were asked to remember this list of numbers : 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 12 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 Notice there are 2 12s . An exact representation would just save these numbers as they are . This would be a ' lossless ' file . Suppose you wanted to make a smaller file though ? You might be able to -encode- the list with something like this : \" Start with 1 , then add 1 19 times \" You might be able to store these instructions in a shorter file . You would n't recover -exactly- the original data , but for some applications that might not matter . When does it not matter ? Well in particular for sound , picture and video data . Using some very sophisticated algorithms that have been developed in the past few decades , people have figured out how to represent sounds , images and videos as mathematical curves that take up much less space to store than the original sound or image data . A -decoder- converts this data into an approximation of the original data before playing it back to you . The data is n't exactly the same , but your eyes and ears ca n't tell the difference ( unless the compression is applied too severely ) . Are \" lossless \" files perfectly lossless ? Yes . For example , the PNG format is a way to take a digital image and compress it to a smaller file size , but when you decompress the image , you get the exact same pixels as the original uncompressed image . Are some files more \" lossy \" than others . Yes . First of all , it depends on the compression algorithm . New compression algorithms are more clever reducing the file size while producing an acceptable result . Older algorithms were not as good . Second of all , it depends on how severely the compression is applied , as I hinted at above . This is usually expressed as ' image quality ' for a lossy image format like JPEG , or as ' bitrate ' for a lossy sound format like MP3 . A higher bitrate for MP3 means more of the true original sounds are preserved , but the files are correspondingly larger .<>A \"lossy\" file is a type of digital file that has been compressed, or made smaller, by removing some of the data from the original file. This means that when you open the lossy file, you will not see all of the original data that was in the original file. There are certain file types that are known to be more lossy than others. For example, JPEG files are a type of lossy file that are commonly used to store photographs. When you save a photograph as a JPEG file, some of the data from the original photograph is removed in order to make the file smaller. This can result in a loss of quality in the image, because some of the original detail has been removed. There are also file types that are known as \"lossless\" files, which are files that have not had any data removed when they are compressed. These files are typically larger than lossy files, but they do not lose any quality when they are opened, because all of the original data is still present. It is not possible for any file to be perfectly lossless, because there is always some loss of data when a file is compressed. However, some lossless file formats are able to retain more of the original data than others, which can result in a higher quality version of the original file when it is opened.<>reddit_eli5