Why does Argentina believe the Falklands are part of their territory ? In relation to the current situation , apart from its proximity , why does Argentina believe it has a claim to the islands and their resources ? Also , what 's the Argentinian public 's perspective ? Explain like I'm five.<>The reasons I was taught at school why they * belonged * to Argentina afaik were that they are inside our continental shelf . All I know that we started a war with UK for them in 1982 , but our government was in fact , a dictatorship , they fed people false news about us winning and that everything was going in our favor . Here 's a wall of text for your reading pleasure : URL_0 What do we think about this claim ? Ca n't say exactly what the majority wants , depends on whose side of the politics you are on . We as a nation are easily hyped about stuff and when something bigger comes , we just forget about the previous hype and focus on the next one , lol . My point of view is to leave the people be , they already live that far away and now we are trying to make their lives harder by blocking their stuff just for an old grudge ? We should be discussing these issues like grownups rather than throwing a fit . And just to clarify my political alignment would be against our government , and as I said , it almost depends on whose side you are on .<>Argentina believes the Falkland Islands, which it calls the Islas Malvinas, are part of its territory because it claims that the islands have been under Argentine sovereignty since the early 1800s. However, the United Kingdom has controlled the islands since the 1830s and has maintained a continuous presence there since then. The current situation with the Falkland Islands is that Argentina continues to claim sovereignty over the islands, but the UK and the islanders themselves, who are mostly of British descent, reject these claims and wish to remain a British Overseas Territory. Argentina believes it has a claim to the islands and their resources because it considers the Falklands to be a part of its territory, and therefore considers the islanders to be Argentine citizens. The Argentine public generally supports the government's position on the Falklands and believes that the islands should be returned to Argentine control. To explain this like you're five: Argentina thinks the Falkland Islands belong to them because they say they have always belonged to them. But the UK says they belong to them and the people who live on the islands want to stay part of the UK. Argentina wants the islands back and thinks they should have the right to use the resources there because they think the islands are part of their country.<>reddit_eli5