Why is Cyprus still split in half . I understand why it was split with the Greeks and Turks fighting over it but why like 30 years later is it still divided ? You would think a UN mandate or something would come through settling this issue . Please explain like I'm five.<>The same reason Israel is still split with Palestine . The division runs deep . The north has actually declared independence and is backed heavily by Turkey . I briefly lived in Paphos in the west ( Greek ) in 1992\/3 . They lived as though the east did n't exist . Nobody seemed to talk about it , but the hatred is there .<>Cyprus is an island in the eastern Mediterranean Sea that is divided into two main parts: the Republic of Cyprus, which is an independent country, and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which is not recognized as a country by most other nations. The division of the island dates back to the early 1960s, when tensions between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities on the island began to escalate. These tensions were fueled by a variety of factors, including differences in language, religion, and culture, as well as the conflicting political aspirations of the two communities. \nIn 1974, the situation on the island deteriorated further when the military government of Greece attempted to unite Cyprus with Greece. This led to a conflict with Turkey, which has a large population of Turkish Cypriots on the island. Turkey intervened militarily and occupied the northern part of the island, establishing the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. \nSince then, efforts have been made to reunify the island and bring about a settlement between the two sides. The United Nations has played a role in these efforts, and various peace plans have been proposed over the years. However, these efforts have so far been unsuccessful, and the island remains divided. \nThere are many complex factors that have contributed to the ongoing division of Cyprus, and it is not easy to find a solution that would be acceptable to both sides. However, many people continue to hope that a peaceful resolution can be found and that the island can be reunified.<>reddit_eli5