Money Laundering What is it , why is it illegal and what advantages to criminals gain from practicing the act ? Thanks ! Explain like I'm five.<>Suppose you want to hire someone to do something illegal ( murder someone , steal something for you , whatever ) , but they want to charge you an obscene amount of money for it , say 50 grand . So , you go to your bank and withdraw 50,000 from your life savings . If the police or the IRS ever take a look at your bank activity , you 're going to have a very hard time explaining where that 50 K went , since you do n't exactly get a receipt from a hitman . Or , let 's say you offer a service for something illegal ( eg . you 're a hitman ) . When one of your customers pays you 50 K to kill someone , you ca n't just deposit that money in your bank account without raising a few eyebrows , and if someone ever asks you where you got that money from , you 're going to have a hard time explaining it . Either way , you 've got a fair amount of money either coming out of or going into your bank account , and no legal way to explain it . This is where a \" front \" comes in - a front is a business that is n't really what it appears to be . Let 's say you open an art store selling crappy homemade works of \" art \" for incredible amounts of money . One of your \" customers \" comes to you and asks you to kill someone for 50 K , so you sell them a work of \" art \" for $ 50,000 . This looks like a legitimate transaction , and both the customer and the front owner can claim it legally , but the 50 K was n't really for the artwork , it was for the hit job . The term money laundering comes from the fact that a lot of the early front companies were laundromats , charging money for \" laundry \" but actually performing other ( illegal ) services as well . The money goes in dirty , and comes out clean ( i.e. perfectly legal as far as the IRS can see ) .<>Money laundering is the process of taking money that was earned through illegal activities, and making it seem like it was earned through legal means. It is illegal because it helps criminals hide the fact that they have earned money through illegal activities, and it allows them to use that money without being caught.\n\nFor example, let's say a person sells drugs and makes a lot of money from it. If they just put all of that cash in the bank, it would be obvious that they earned it through illegal activities. So instead, they might try to \"clean\" the money by buying something with it, like a house or a car. Now, if anyone asks where they got the money to buy those things, the person can say they saved up the money from their job or from investing. This makes it seem like the money was earned legally, even though it was actually earned through illegal activities.\n\nCriminals gain several advantages from practicing money laundering. First, it helps them hide the fact that they have earned money through illegal activities, which makes it harder for law enforcement to catch them. Second, it allows them to use the money without attracting attention, since it seems like the money was earned legally. Finally, it allows criminals to keep their illegal profits instead of having to give them up to the government.<>reddit_eli5