How did HIV start ? If you get infected with HIV by sleeping with someone who already has it , how did it start ? Where did I come from ? If it organically occurred then could n't it theoretically occur again in say , a virgin ? Explain like I'm five.<>Hi I 'm an HIV scientist . Hivologist . Human immunodeficiency virologist . I study the damn virus . Genetically and morphologically , both siv and HIV are nearly identical . How did a virus like this start ? Lets forego the rather contentious discussion on how viruses began and their purpose . Lets start with the virus simply existing in a chimp population . Siv is good at its job in chimps . Does n't kill them , lets the virus propagate . Successful virus . Imagine there 's a large population of chimps infected with the virus . Within every host , retroviruses like siv \/ hiv produce a large genetically diverse reservoir of viruses . Lets say the genome is 10 k bases in length . That 's a very small genome . We have more than 3 billion for reference . It just so happens there are multiple mechanisms inherent to the virus that make its reproductive steps increase genetic variability . Now , this only means it has a lot of mutations ( relative to a DNA virus or even our genome ) . In addition , more than half of all viruses produced in the body are non - infectious for a list of reasons . What we have now is the possibility for a single virus to experience a couple mutations in its genome in the right places that enable siv to infect humans . One of these such mutations is the vif protein . Mutations in one amino acid enable siv propagation in humans . So now we have the putative patient zero . Somehow this poor bastard was exposed to fluid containing a virus of siv with the correct mutations in its genome to confer upon it the ability to fuck up humans . So sorta how it came to be from chimps to humans is answered by this . If you want to hear some of the ways we think siv originated I can answer after my flight lands .<>HIV, or human immunodeficiency virus, is a virus that attacks the immune system. It is spread through certain bodily fluids, such as blood, semen, vaginal fluids, and breast milk. HIV is not spread through casual contact, such as shaking hands, hugging, or sharing food or drinks. The exact origins of HIV are not fully understood, but it is believed to have originated in non-human primates in West-central Africa and was transmitted to humans through contact with infected blood. It is thought that HIV first emerged in humans in the early 20th century and spread slowly at first. It is not possible for a person to get infected with HIV by sleeping with someone who already has the virus, unless there is exchange of bodily fluids during sexual activity or if HIV-infected blood or body fluids come into contact with an open wound or mucous membranes (such as the lining of the vagina, rectum, or mouth). It is not possible for HIV to \"re-occur\" in a virgin or in any other person who has not been exposed to the virus. HIV is not a new virus and it is not something that can spontaneously occur in people who have not been exposed to it. It is important to practice safe sex and to use protection, such as condoms, to reduce the risk of HIV transmission.<>HIV, or human immunodeficiency virus, is a virus that attacks the immune system. It is spread through certain bodily fluids, such as blood, semen, vaginal fluids, and breast milk. HIV is not spread through casual contact, such as shaking hands, hugging, or sharing food or drinks. The exact origins of HIV are not fully understood, but it is believed to have originated in non-human primates in West-central Africa and was transmitted to humans through contact with infected blood. It is thought that HIV first emerged in humans in the early 20th century and spread slowly at first. It is not possible for a person to get infected with HIV by sleeping with someone who already has the virus, unless there is exchange of bodily fluids during sexual activity or if HIV-infected blood or body fluids come into contact with an open wound or mucous membranes (such as the lining of the vagina, rectum, or mouth). It is not possible for HIV to \"re-occur\" in a virgin or in any other person who has not been exposed to the virus. HIV is not a new virus and it is not something that can spontaneously occur in people who have not been exposed to it. It is important to practice safe sex and to use protection, such as condoms, to reduce the risk of HIV transmission.<>reddit_eli5