File Compression Like zip files . It seems odd to me that you can reduce a file to a smaller one and then get it all back . Explain like I'm five.<>Imagine you have a list of names you 're trying to remember : Mary Mary Mary Dave Mary Mary Mary Mary Dave Mary Mary Mary Mary Dave Mary Fred You could memorize each word ( or even each letter and space ) in order , but there are lots of ways to organize the data to make it easier for yourself . The first thing you notice is that there is a lot of repetition . You might try to think of the list like this : Mary(×3 ) Dave Mary(×4 ) Dave Mary(×4 ) Dave Mary Fred You 've reduced it from a list of 16 items ( each name ) to one of 11 ( each name plus the repetition notes ) . We can even reduce it further . You notice that this pattern appears three times : Mary Mary Mary Dave Mary So let 's define this : A = Mary(×3 ) Dave Mary Our list now becomes : A(×3 ) Fred Depending on how you want to count , that 's about 8 or 9 things to keep track of . We 've cut what we have to remember in half , and yet we have n't lost any of the original data ! As long as we know what method we used to make our shorthand list , it 's easy to take it and expand it back into the original list . File compression on computers works in a similar way . A computer uses a little program ( called a utility ) to compress the data . The utility has an algorithm ( a method of processing the data ) that looks for patterns and shortcuts in the binary code . ( We were concerned with discrete words above , but the utility analyzes the string of 1s and 0s that actually make up a file . ) The more sophisticated the algorithm , the smaller the compressed file can be . ( It also helps if there are lots of patterns or repetition for the algorithm to latch onto . Certain files compress better than others because of this . ) To decompress the data , a companion utility reverses the process .<>Sure! Imagine you have a really big toy box and you have a bunch of small toys that you want to put away. You might find that it's easier to put all of the small toys into a bag before you put them into the toy box. That way, you can fit more toys into the toy box and you don't have to spend as much time trying to find a specific toy when you want to play with it. Now, let's say that you have a lot of toys and you want to make sure that they all fit into the toy box. You might decide to get a bigger bag to put the toys in. But then you might realize that the bigger bag takes up more space in the toy box, so you have less room for other things. This is kind of like what happens when you compress a file. When you have a big file, it can be hard to store it on your computer or send it to someone else. So, you can use a special tool to \"squeeze\" the file into a smaller size. Just like how you can fit more toys into a smaller bag, you can fit more information into a smaller file. When you want to use the file again, you can \"unzip\" it to get all of the information back. It's kind of like taking the toys out of the bag and putting them back into the toy box. The file might not be exactly the same size as it was before, but all of the information will be there. I hope that helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5