If Edward Snowden quit his contracting job and then worked for a newspaper or media outlet and disclosed his findings , could he have been prosecuted ? Just a hypothetical - thanks ! Explain like I'm five.<>Yes . [ 18 USC § 798 - Disclosure of classified information ] ( URL_0 ) makes no exceptions for journalists . Of course all that really matters is what the supreme court might say , but it 's hard to imagine they 'd allow someone to , say , quit their job in the CIA and then publish the names of US agents around the world as a journalist . > ( a ) Whoever knowingly and willfully communicates , furnishes , transmits , or otherwise makes available to an unauthorized person , or publishes , or uses in any manner prejudicial to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any foreign government to the detriment of the United States any classified information — > ( 1 ) concerning the nature , preparation , or use of any code , cipher , or cryptographic system of the United States or any foreign government ; or > ( 2 ) concerning the design , construction , use , maintenance , or repair of any device , apparatus , or appliance used or prepared or planned for use by the United States or any foreign government for cryptographic or communication intelligence purposes ; or > ( 3 ) concerning the communication intelligence activities of the United States or any foreign government ; or > ( 4 ) obtained by the processes of communication intelligence from the communications of any foreign government , knowing the same to have been obtained by such processes — Shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years , or both .<>It's possible that Edward Snowden could have been prosecuted if he had disclosed classified information while working for a newspaper or media outlet. When someone works for a government agency, like the National Security Agency (NSA) where Snowden used to work, they often sign agreements saying that they will not share certain information with anyone else. This is because the information is considered to be sensitive and could harm national security if it were to be made public. If Snowden had quit his job and then gone to work for a newspaper or media outlet, and then shared the classified information he had access to while working for the government, he could potentially be breaking the law. There are laws in the United States that make it illegal to disclose classified information without permission. If Snowden had done this, he could have been charged with a crime and potentially gone to prison if he was found guilty.<>reddit_eli5