Why is it not practical to just stick giant solar panels on the roof \/ hood of smart cars ? I 've always wondered about cars and solar panels ... Why is this not something that is being looked into ? Explain like I'm five.<>Because it 's utterly pointless . The absolute maximum solar irradiance at the Earth is 1360 watts per square meter . By the time you get through the atmosphere , and by the time you consider that most solar panels are well under 50 % efficient , you 're talking about 500 watts per square meter of electricity , on a clear summer day . Roof and hood of a car is what , 3 square meters ? So that 's 1500 watts , which is 2 horsepower . That 's roughly the power that a push lawnmower or a drill has . It 's certainly not enough to power your car , which likely has over 100 horsepower . It would maybe be enough to trickle charge your car ( roughly 50 minutes of charging would give you 1 minute of driving ) . If you worked an 8 hour day and had a commute under 10 minutes , it * might * charge enough during the day to get you home , but you 'd still need to charge it from a socket once you 're home , as it wo n't charge in the dark . Not to mention , you 're also dragging around additional weight due to the solar panels . If you consider that the average car uses 100hp to move 1500 kg , that 's 15 kg per horsepower . If your solar panels weigh 30 kg , they 've negated their benefit , as they 're generating the same power that the car is spending to move them . Even if they weigh less , it could be a net loss , since you 'd be carrying them around in the dark too . And this is all assuming that solar panels are free . When you consider that they 're not , any semblance of a good reason to have them disappears . You 're far better off just putting solar panels on the roof of your house and getting a car that supports plug - in recharging .<>Solar panels are a great way to generate electricity from the sun, but they are not very practical for use on cars for a few reasons.\n\nFirst, solar panels are quite heavy and adding a lot of weight to a car can make it less efficient. Cars are designed to be as lightweight as possible to help them go faster and use less fuel.\n\nSecond, solar panels need a lot of space to be effective. To generate enough electricity to power a car, you would need to cover a large area of the car with solar panels. This would not only make the car look very different, but it would also make it less aerodynamic, which would make it harder to drive and less fuel efficient.\n\nFinally, solar panels are not very good at generating electricity on cloudy or rainy days, which means that they would not be able to power the car all the time. This would make it difficult to rely on solar panels as the sole source of energy for a car.\n\nOverall, while solar panels have the potential to be a great source of renewable energy, they are not practical for use on cars at this time.<>reddit_eli5