Hard Drives What is the difference between SAS and SATA Hard Drives ? Why do they come in two sizes ? 2.5 \" and 3.5 \" Can you properly explain what the cache on a Hard Drive does ? What is a hybrid Hard Drive ? Explain like I'm five.
SAS and SATA are serial versions of SCSI and ATA . SAS and SATA provide better speed and some additional capabilities over their predecessors . SAS , and SCSI before it , have been typically used in servers and high - end workstations . ATA and SATA are typically used in lower - end applications . These days , think of SAS as fast as enough for multiple users ( hence servers ) and SATA as fast enough for one single user ( hence laptops , desktops ) . The lines blur a little in some applications ( like large SAN units with dozens of SATA drives ) , but this is ELI5 . Th different form factors are for different applications . Smaller drives fit smaller machines but usually cost more . 2.5 are usually used in laptops or in blade servers , which are very compact high - performance machines . Cache is a bit of actual memory , which is a lot , a LOT faster than the HD itself . There are many ways to use cache , but typically , when your computer tells your hard drive to read a chunk of data , it reads that chunk plus the next few chunks and puts the whole thing in cache . It is very likely that sequential chunks will be required by the computer , so that when it asks for the next one , it is already in the cache and can be delivered much faster . To understand a hybrid disk , you need to understand SSDs . SSDs are solid state drives , they are a quantity of actual memory that presents itself to a system as if it were a disk . They are a lot faster than traditional HDs , but they are a lot more expensive . Enter the hybrid drive : it has a large conventional hard drive and a small SSD inside the same unit . This can be seen by your system as two different drives , one very fast and small , the other slow but large . Some systems can use the SSD portion of a hybrid drive as cache , but in this case a lot larger than your typical cache . It works as before , trying to read ahead what you might need next , but also making writes faster : when you save something , it saves to the SSD portion , and from your point of view the operation is over . Then the drive copies the data from the SSD to the HD , which is slow but does n't affect you . This gives you the \" feeling \" that you have a very large , very fast drive .
SAS (Serial Attached SCSI) and SATA (Serial Advanced Technology Attachment) are two different types of hard drives that are used to store data.\r\n\r\nThe main difference between the two is the way they connect to the computer. SAS hard drives use a special kind of connection called a SCSI connector, while SATA hard drives use a different kind of connector called SATA.\r\n\r\nHard drives come in two different sizes: 2.5 inches and 3.5 inches. The size refers to the physical size of the hard drive. The 2.5 inch hard drives are smaller and are usually used in laptops, while the 3.5 inch hard drives are larger and are usually used in desktop computers.\r\n\r\nThe cache on a hard drive is a small amount of memory that is used to store frequently accessed data. The purpose of the cache is to speed up access to the data by allowing the hard drive to access the data from the cache memory instead of having to retrieve it from the hard drive itself, which can be slower.\r\n\r\nA hybrid hard drive is a type of hard drive that combines a regular hard drive with a small amount of solid state memory (like the memory used in a USB drive). The solid state memory is used as a cache, just like the cache on a regular hard drive. The benefit of a hybrid hard drive is that it can access data faster than a regular hard drive because it can use the solid state cache to store frequently accessed data.
reddit_eli5
