Is VAT applied when a tradesman charges for materials?<>The plumber will apply for and receive a refund of the amount of VAT he paid on the purchase amount.  That's the cornerstone of how VAT works, as opposed to a sales tax.  So for example: (Rounded approximate amounts for simplicity) Now, at each point, the amount between (original cost VAT) and (new VAT) is refunded.  So by the end, a total of £3 VAT is paid on the pipe (not £6.2); and at each point the business 'adding value' at that stage pays that much.  The material company adds £1 value; the producer adds £4 value; the supplier adds £5 value; the plumber adds £5 value.   Each pays some amount of VAT on that amount, typically 20% unless it's zero\/reduced rated.  So the pipe supplier pays £1 but gets a £0.2 refund, so truly pays £0.8.  The plumber pays £3 (from your payment) but gets a £2 refund.   So at each level somebody paid a bit, and then that bit is then refunded to the next person up the ladder, with the final person in the chain paying the full amount.  The £0.2 is refunded to the producer, the £1 is refunded to the supplier, the £2 is refunded to the plumber.<>Value-added tax (VAT) is generally applied to the sale of goods and services in many countries. Whether or not VAT is applied to the materials that a tradesman charges for will depend on the specific laws of the country where the tradesman is operating and the nature of the materials being sold.In general, VAT is applied to the sale of most goods and many services. However, there are some exceptions to this rule, and certain goods and services may be exempt from VAT or may be subject to a reduced rate of VAT. It is important for a tradesman to be aware of the VAT rules that apply to the materials they are selling and to charge the appropriate amount of VAT, if any, to their customers.It is always a good idea for a tradesman to consult with a tax professional or seek guidance from the tax authorities in their country to ensure that they are charging the correct amount of VAT on the materials they sell.<>finance