Explain art . Why are the works of Jackson Pollack , Piet Mondrian , Mark Rothko , Franz Kline considered great art ? And I just ca n't understand why Jeff Koons is so popular . Explain like I'm five.<>Art is meant to entertain . Because life has no definite purpose , art is created in order to help give life purpose , or at least take our minds off of life 's lack of purpose . Almost anything can be considered an art . Paintings that depicts realistic looking scenes like landscapes and portraits do this in a very closed - ended way . That is , if it 's a painting of a tree , there 's really only one way to interpret that painting . However , abstract art like that of Pollack and all of the other artists you 've mentioned , fill the void of existance in a more open - ended way . Their paintings are meant to inspire feelings just like any other painting , but the viewer has more of a choice in what feelings are being inspired because they have more choice in what they are seeing .<>Art is a form of expression that can take many different forms, such as painting, sculpture, music, dance, literature, and more. It is created by people who want to share their ideas, emotions, and experiences with others through a visual or sensory medium. Jackson Pollack, Piet Mondrian, Mark Rothko, and Franz Kline are all famous artists who are known for creating abstract paintings. Abstract art is art that does not depict a specific object or scene, but instead uses shapes, colors, and lines to create a visual image. These artists are considered great because they were able to use abstract forms to create powerful and emotional works of art that spoke to many people. Jeff Koons is an artist who is known for creating large, shiny, and colorful sculptures. His art is often based on everyday objects, such as balloons or toys, and he uses bright and bold colors to make them stand out. Many people find his art interesting and enjoyable to look at because it is so different from traditional art and because it often has a playful and lighthearted feel to it. In general, art is considered great when it is able to capture the attention and imagination of a large number of people and when it is able to communicate something meaningful or powerful to them. Different people will have different opinions about what makes a particular piece of art great, but in general, art that is considered great is able to touch people emotionally and to make them think in new and interesting ways.<>reddit_eli5