Why as an ( American ) 18 year old , I can take a bullet for my country yet not enjoy a beer ? It just does n't make sense . Explain like I'm five.<>Eh , it 's hard to make sense of this without looking at the policy behind the 21 years of age drinking standard . Before 21 was the nationwide age , states were able to set their own drinking limit . Some states , like Wisconsin , set their drinking age to 18 , and other states , like Illinois , set their drinking age to 21 . Now , this created a problem because kids between the ages of 18 - 21 were crossing the border to drink and then supposedly driving back drunk . So , in order to control the states and make a uniform standard for drinking ages , congress decided that 21 was going to be the set age limit , and in order to get the states to cooperate they set conditions on getting federal money for the highway system . The condition being that the drinking age had to be set at 21 in order to get the money . Now , I know this does n't really answer your question , but it 's hard to know why they chose 21 and not 18 . To be honest , I do n't think congress saw the age to consent to military service and the drinking age as being related . After all , being able to decide whether you want to join the military is n't really indicative of your maturity with respect to consuming alcohol . That being said , one might infer that a person who makes the decision to fight and die for his country is , by default , mature enough to drink a beer . The long and short is that this country has always had somewhat of a spotty history with alcohol . We tend to like to regulate our vices more than other countries . It might have to do with our puritanical roots , but it probably has more to do with the general culture of our country . We do n't like kids having access to drugs or booze . Period . By the way , some states have weird rules with respect to drinking . For instance , Wisconsin still has an active law that allows any person to drink regardless of age as long as they are in the presence of a guardian who is over 21 . My 16 year old brother had a beer with me and my dad when he came to visit me in Madison . EDIT : I did forget one thing . There is a lobbying group , not sure if you 've heard of them , but it 's called Mothers Against Drunk Driving ( MADD ) they were a strong supporter of changing the required drinking age to 21 , and I think they might have played a role in changing the military drinking age .<>In the United States, the legal drinking age is 21. This means that it is against the law for people under the age of 21 to buy, possess, or consume alcohol. The reason for this law is because alcohol can be harmful to the developing brains of young people and can lead to problems such as accidents, injuries, and poor decision making.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, being 18 years old means that you are considered an adult and are able to do things like vote, join the military, and make legal decisions. Being able to serve in the military and potentially put your life on the line for your country is a serious responsibility and privilege, and it is one that is granted to adults who are considered mature enough to handle it.\r\n\r\nI hope this helps to clarify the difference between these two age-related rules.<>reddit_eli5