Why are spaceships in fiction associated with the Navy ? Should n't it be Air Force ? Ex : Mass Effect , the flagship of the game , the SSV Normandy is Alliance Navy Explain like I'm five.<>The Air Force does not procedures for vehicles larger than a transport plane . The Navy does . Since we do n't have space fleets ( yet ) sci - fi writers have to work with what they know . The Navy 's procedures are much more readily adaptable . Notice that most space ships are named like Naval things ( eg Battleships , Cruisers , Frigates ) .<>In many science fiction stories, spaceships are often associated with navies because they are used for military purposes, such as exploration, defense, and attacking other ships or planets. In the real world, navies are responsible for the operation of military ships, including aircraft carriers and submarines, which are used for similar purposes. In the same way, fictional spaceships are often depicted as being part of a military organization, similar to a navy. However, in some cases, spaceships might be associated with other branches of the military, such as the air force, or with private organizations or companies. Ultimately, the choice to associate spaceships with a navy or another military organization is a decision made by the creators of the fiction, and it can vary from one story to another.<>In many science fiction stories, spaceships are often associated with navies because they are used for military purposes, such as exploration, defense, and attacking other ships or planets. In the real world, navies are responsible for the operation of military ships, including aircraft carriers and submarines, which are used for similar purposes. In the same way, fictional spaceships are often depicted as being part of a military organization, similar to a navy. However, in some cases, spaceships might be associated with other branches of the military, such as the air force, or with private organizations or companies. Ultimately, the choice to associate spaceships with a navy or another military organization is a decision made by the creators of the fiction, and it can vary from one story to another.<>reddit_eli5