How does Nasa know the exact course to chart with their space probes to get them on different planets ? ELI5 : How does Nasa know the exact course to chart with their space probes to get them on different planets ? Explain like I'm five.<>Well they 're literally rocket scientists ... No , seriously , NASA has some of the finest astronomers in the world , who have learned how to perform the complex trajectory calculations necessary to fire a space probe travelling thousands of miles per hour , off of one planet travelling sixty - five thousand miles per hour , towards another planet travelling fifty - four thousand miles per hour ( Mars , for the sake of argument ) . To use a sports analogy , a hockey player does n't pass the puck to where his teammate is , he passes it to the point his teammate will be by the time the puck arrives . NASA is doing pretty much the same thing , just on an exponentially larger scale and using rockets .<>To get a space probe to a specific planet, NASA uses a combination of math and physics. They use math to calculate the path that the probe should take, taking into account things like the distance between the probe and the planet and the speed at which the probe is traveling. They also use physics to understand how the probe will be affected by things like the gravity of other planets and the sun, which can affect its course. One way that NASA figures out the best path for a space probe is by using a technique called \"orbital mechanics.\" This involves using math and physics to predict how a probe will move in space based on the forces acting on it, such as gravity and the push of its engines. Once they have a good understanding of the probe's path, NASA can then use this information to plan the course of the probe and make any necessary adjustments along the way to ensure that it stays on track. This might involve using the probe's engines to change its speed or direction, or using the gravity of other objects in space to \"slingshot\" the probe towards its destination. Overall, it takes a lot of careful planning and precise calculations to get a space probe to a specific planet, but by using math and physics, NASA is able to chart a course that will get the probe where it needs to go.<>reddit_eli5