How can airline carriers get away with overbooking flights ? Financially , is n't it a drain on resources to compensate affected passengers ? Legally , are they somehow covered ? Explain like I'm five.<>They use statistics concerning past no - show rates to determine how to extract maximum profit from the seats on each plane . They have a formula where they calculate the chance of a few passengers not showing up , versus the cost of compensating a few angry people if the overbooking results in not enough seats , and they see it as purely a profit - making exercise balanced by a public - relations exercise . They know they can ALWAYS get a few people to agree to take a later flight if they offer the proper inducement . Have you ever sat in the take - off lounge and you hear the announcements at first offering a $ 100 voucher if someone will volunteer to take a later flight , and then if no one takes it , a free round trip , and so forth , until eventually someone caves and accepts the bribe to not sit on their planned flight ?<>Overbooking flights is a common practice in the airline industry because it helps airlines to maximize the revenue from their flights. When an airline overbooks a flight, it is selling more tickets than there are seats on the plane. This is because the airline knows that some people who have bought tickets will not show up for the flight, either because they have changed their plans or because they have missed their flight.\r\n\r\nWhen an airline overbooks a flight and there are not enough seats for everyone who has a ticket, the airline will usually ask for volunteers to give up their seats in exchange for compensation, such as a voucher for a future flight or a cash payment. If there are not enough volunteers, the airline may then involuntarily bump some passengers off the flight, which means they will not be able to fly on that flight even though they have a ticket.\r\n\r\nIn the United States, the Department of Transportation requires airlines to compensate passengers who are involuntarily bumped from their flights. The amount of compensation depends on the length of the delay and the price of the ticket. Airlines are also required to give bumped passengers the option to cancel their trip and receive a full refund.\r\n\r\nWhile overbooking flights can be a financial drain for airlines if they have to compensate affected passengers, it can also help them to maximize their revenue by filling as many seats as possible on each flight.<>reddit_eli5