What percentage of my portfolio should be in individual stocks?<>I'm in a remarkably similar situation as yourself.  I keep roughly 80% of my portfolio in low-cost ETFs (16% bond, 16% commodities, 48% stock), with about 20% in 6-8 individual stocks.  Individual stocks are often overlooked by investors.  The benefits of individual stock ownership are that you can avoid paying any holding or management fee (unlike ETFs and mutual funds). As long as you assess the fundamentals (P\/B, P\/E, PEG etc.) of the company you are buying, and don't over-trade, you can do quite well. I recommend semi-annual re-balancing among asset classes, and an individual stock check up.  I've found over the years that my individual stocks outperform the S&P500 the vast majority of the time, although it often accompanied by an increase in volatility.  Since you're limiting your stake to only 20%, the volatility is not really an issue.<>There is no one-size-fits-all answer to this question, as the appropriate asset allocation for your portfolio will depend on your financial goals, risk tolerance, and overall investment strategy. It is generally recommended to diversify your portfolio by including a mix of asset classes, such as stocks, bonds, and cash.One way to determine the appropriate mix of individual stocks and other assets for your portfolio is to use the asset allocation process. This involves establishing your investment objectives, assessing your risk tolerance, and determining the asset mix that is most appropriate for your situation.Some investors may choose to have a higher percentage of their portfolio in individual stocks, while others may prefer to have a larger portion of their portfolio in more diversified investments such as mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Ultimately, the right mix of individual stocks and other assets for your portfolio will depend on your personal financial circumstances and investment goals.<>There is no one-size-fits-all answer to this question, as the appropriate asset allocation for your portfolio will depend on your financial goals, risk tolerance, and overall investment strategy. It is generally recommended to diversify your portfolio by including a mix of asset classes, such as stocks, bonds, and cash.One way to determine the appropriate mix of individual stocks and other assets for your portfolio is to use the asset allocation process. This involves establishing your investment objectives, assessing your risk tolerance, and determining the asset mix that is most appropriate for your situation.Some investors may choose to have a higher percentage of their portfolio in individual stocks, while others may prefer to have a larger portion of their portfolio in more diversified investments such as mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Ultimately, the right mix of individual stocks and other assets for your portfolio will depend on your personal financial circumstances and investment goals.<>finance