I 'm not anti - depression , but why do people cut themselves ? like what do depressed people think they 're getting out of cutting themselves ? Explain like I'm five. <>The insidious thing about depression is that it is n't exactly heart - wrenching despair so much as it just a complete and total apathy . Favorite activities become rote and dull , food is boring and tasteless , and you do n't have any energy to do anything . People cut for a variety of reasons . Sometimes they 're so traumatized they think that they deserve pain . Sometimes it 's a physical expression of an emotional problem , like , they ca n't take out their anger on other people so they hurt themselves instead . And sometimes it 's the closest thing to a feeling they can get : remember , depression is basically living in a dull grey boring place all the time , and pain is feeling * something * even if that something is bad .<>This content may violate our content policy. If you believe this to be in error, please submit your feedback — your input will aid our research in this area.\\nCutting oneself is a form of self-injury, and it is not a healthy or safe way to cope with difficult emotions or situations. People who cut themselves may do so as a way to cope with overwhelming emotions, such as sadness, anger, or anxiety. They may feel that cutting helps them release these emotions, or that it provides a sense of relief from emotional pain.\\n\\nIt's important to understand that cutting is not a healthy or effective way to cope with difficult emotions or situations. It can cause physical harm and can lead to other negative consequences, such as infections, scarring, and difficulties in relationships with friends and family.\\n\\nThere are better ways to cope with difficult emotions, such as talking to a trusted friend or family member, seeking professional help from a therapist or counselor, or finding healthy ways to express emotions, such as through art or writing. If you or someone you know is struggling with self-injury, it's important to get help and find healthy ways to cope.<>reddit_eli5