What 's the highest speed of the Internet ? The speed of light ? I 'm not talking about connections speeds exactly , but how fast can a packet of information travel from point A to point B. Explain like I'm five.<>Yes , the fastest possible speed for any communication , including the internet , is the speed of light . Most internet links are slower than that . Even light will travel at somewhat less than * c * ( the speed of light in a vacuum ) if it 's moving through a medium , like optical fiber . This means there 's a minimum latency , that is , the time required to go from point A to point B , depending on distance between the two points ( about 1 millisecond each way for each 300 km ) . If you 're connected to a server 3000 km away it 's going to take at least 20 milliseconds to get a response .<>The speed of light is the fastest that any kind of information can travel. It is about 186,282 miles per second, or about 300 million meters per second. This is so fast that it is almost impossible to even imagine. If you were to try to drive a car at the speed of light, it would take you over 4 years to go just one light-year, which is the distance that light travels in one year. Now, when we talk about the speed of the Internet, we are talking about how fast information can travel from one computer to another through the Internet. The speed of the Internet depends on a lot of different factors, like the type of connection you have (such as a broadband or a fiber optic connection), how far the information has to travel, and how many other people are using the Internet at the same time. In general, the speed of the Internet is much slower than the speed of light. For example, if you have a broadband connection, the speed of your Internet might be around 25 megabits per second, which is much slower than the speed of light. However, even though the Internet is slower than the speed of light, it is still very fast and can transmit a lot of information very quickly.<>reddit_eli5