what are chickenpox and why does everyone get it and only once ? does n't it seem strange that we just accept this virus(or whatever it is ) just being passed around ? Please explain like I'm five.<>It 's a virus , and typically with viruses , you only get it once . Then your body has made antibodies for it so it can fight off the virus if you 're exposed again . However , your body does n't completely cure you of the virus . The virus stays dormant in your nerve tissues . Then , years later , it can resurface , but instead of taking the form of chicken pox again , it is shingles , which are itchy , painful sores that inflame your nerve pathways . It 's very unpleasant . It was kind of accepted as just happening because it 's not usually that dangerous as long as you get it as a child . When adults get it , it can be a lot more dangerous and there are deaths every year from it . Shingles can also be quite a plague on people . So they have developed a vaccine for chickenpox and a vaccine for shingles . Neither vaccine lasts that long so you have to get it several times .<>Chickenpox is a very common illness that is caused by a virus. It is spread from person to person through the air when an infected person talks, coughs, or sneezes. It is also spread by coming into direct contact with the fluid from the chickenpox blisters.Most people get chickenpox only once because after a person has had the illness, their body is able to build immunity to it. This means that their body is able to fight off the virus and they will not get chickenpox again.It may seem strange to you that we just accept this virus being passed around, but chickenpox is actually not a very serious illness for most people. It usually goes away on its own within a week or two. While chickenpox can be uncomfortable, most people recover fully and do not have any long-term effects.It is important to remember to wash your hands frequently and to stay away from people who are infected with chickenpox to help prevent the spread of the virus.<>reddit_eli5