If a put seller closes early, what happens to the buyer?<>An option is freely tradable, and all options (of the same kind) are equal. If your position is 0 and you sell 1 option, your new position in that option is -1. If the counterparty to your trade buys or sells more options to close, open, or even reopen their position afterwards, that doesn't matter to your position at all. Of course there's also the issue with American and European Options. European Options expire at their due date, but American Options expire at their due date or at any time before their due date if the holder decides they expire. With American Options, if a holder of an American Option decides to exercise the option, someone who is short the same option will be assigned as the counterparty (this is usually random). Expiry is after market close, so if one of your short American Options expires early, you will need to reopen the position the next day. Keep in mind dividends for slightly increased complexity. American and European Options do not in any way refer to the continents they are traded on, or to the location of the companies. These terms simply describe the expiry rules.<>If a put seller closes their position early, it means that they are selling their put option contract before it expires. This will have no direct effect on the buyer of the put option. The buyer will still hold their put option contract and will have the right to sell the underlying asset at the strike price until the expiration date of the contract, unless they choose to close their position early as well.To close their position early, the buyer could choose to sell their put option contract on the open market, or they could exercise their option by selling the underlying asset at the strike price. If the buyer sells the option contract on the open market, they will receive the value of the option at the current market price. If they exercise the option, they will sell the underlying asset at the strike price, which may be higher or lower than the current market price.The decision to close a position early will depend on the specific circumstances of the market and the individual's investment strategy. It is important for investors to carefully consider the potential risks and rewards of closing a position early before making a decision.<>finance