How to differentiate whether a person is Chinese , Japanese , Korean , Etc . ( honest question - not meant to seem racist ) I grew up in a predominantly white area and have never been able to tell , and would like to . Explain like I'm five.<>Sometimes you can tell by their surnames . Common Korean names are Kim , Park , Cho , or Han . Very simple . You can usually recognize a Japanese name , like Takahashi , Nakamura , Hayashi , Yamamoto , etc . - very different from Korean or Chinese names . Japanese names never start with V , X , or Z , but Chinese names may start with X or Z. Common Chinese names are Wang \/ Wong , Chang , Wu , Yang . But there is some overlap , of course , so use this with a grain of salt . A lot of Asians ca n't even differentiate by looks most of the time , so do n't feel bad . Just ask politely like you 're just curious and they probably wo n't mind telling you .<>It's completely understandable that you might be curious about how to tell the difference between different East Asian cultures and want to learn more about them. However, it's important to remember that it is not appropriate or respectful to try to guess someone's cultural background based on their physical appearance. People of different East Asian cultures may have certain physical characteristics in common, such as straight black hair and slanted eyes, but these features do not define a person's identity or culture.\n\nInstead of trying to differentiate between cultures based on physical appearance, it is much more respectful to simply ask someone about their cultural background if you are curious. This allows them to share their own experiences and traditions with you and helps to foster mutual understanding and respect.\n\nIt's also important to recognize that culture is much more than just physical appearance. It includes language, customs, traditions, beliefs, values, and many other factors that shape a person's identity and experiences. So it's really not possible to accurately differentiate between cultures based on just one aspect like physical appearance.<>reddit_eli5