Why is Greece weighing so heavily on our economy and the world ? All I keep hearing about is how Greece is affecting everything in the stock market both domestic and abroad , why ? Explain like I'm five.<>Everyone is afraid of a chain reaction if Greece ca n't pay back their debts . There are a few countries in precarious positions within the Euro : Portugal , Italy , Ireland , Greece , and Spain . They have all loaned each other money to varying degrees . While Greece is somewhat isolated(most of their money is owed to more stable countries like France and Germany ) , them defaulting would decrease confidence in the Euro , which would hurt the banks in all the other weak countries . So the worry is that one defaulting would either directly(via loans they could n't pay back to an already fragile banking system ) or indirectly(via decreased confidence ) take out the weaker countries banks . If enough of the weaker countries default \/ have insolvent banks , they could ( theoretically ) take the much stronger banking system in France with them . If France goes down , the Euro in general is fucked .<>Greece is a small country with a relatively small economy, but it has been facing significant economic challenges in recent years. These challenges have had an impact on the global economy and financial markets, but it is important to understand that there are many other factors at play as well.\n\nOne of the main reasons that Greece has been in the news is because it has struggled to pay its debts. Like many countries, Greece has borrowed money from other countries and international organizations in order to fund its government and its economy. However, due to a combination of factors, including a recession and high government spending, Greece has found it difficult to pay back these debts. This has led to negotiations and agreements with its creditors, as well as attempts to implement reforms in order to stabilize its economy and get back on track.\n\nThe situation in Greece has also been of concern to the global financial markets because it is a member of the European Union (EU) and uses the euro as its currency. This means that the economic challenges in Greece could potentially affect other countries in the EU and the stability of the euro. In addition, financial markets are interconnected, so events in one country can sometimes have an impact on markets in other countries.\n\nOverall, while Greece is a small country, the economic challenges it has faced have had a ripple effect on the global economy and financial markets. However, it is important to remember that there are many other factors that can impact these markets as well.<>reddit_eli5