Gaddafi Can someone explain , like I 'm 5 what rules of the Geneva Convention Ghaddafi went out of his way and infamously broke , and what he actually did that gave him such a bad worldwide reputation ? Explain like I'm five.<>Gaddafi was a left wing leader , and many well - meaning people in the rich countries supported him when he took power . This turned out to be against their better judgement , as it had with the Soviets before him - he took some very good ideas and gained power in a backwards country . He took the common path for left wing dictators in a right wing political climate , losing more and more of his original principles , retreating into conspiracy theories and oppression of his people , even abandoning the good things he had started off doing . When dictatorships of the left and right started to fall across Africa , the now fairly mad colonel refused to step down , regardless of what his people wanted . He accused the west of inciting violence in his peaceful regime and went into denial about the will his people had for change . He sent his remaining loyal troops to kill innocents ( \" non - combatants \" ) , starved the people of Misrata ( many to death ) and commanded that doctors should be killed if they treated rebel soldiers . Importantly , he is the only leader in the history of international justice who would be brought to trial with evidence of him personally ordering the atrocities .<>Muammar Gaddafi was the former dictator of Libya, and he was known for violating the rights of his own citizens and engaging in actions that were considered to be illegal under international law. Some of the ways in which Gaddafi broke the rules of the Geneva Conventions include: Torture: Gaddafi was accused of torturing political prisoners, including those who opposed his government. This is a violation of the Geneva Conventions, which prohibit torture and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment. Human rights abuses: Gaddafi's regime was known for its widespread human rights abuses, including the suppression of political opposition and the persecution of certain groups, such as ethnic minorities and homosexuals. The Geneva Conventions require that all people be treated with dignity and respect, and that their basic human rights be protected. Terrorism: Gaddafi was also accused of supporting and financing terrorist organizations, including those that carried out attacks on civilians. This is a violation of the Geneva Conventions, which prohibit the use of violence against civilians. Gaddafi's reputation was further damaged by his role in the Lockerbie bombing, a terrorist attack in 1988 that killed 270 people. He was also accused of supporting other acts of terrorism, including the bombing of a German nightclub and the hijacking of a plane. Overall, Gaddafi was known for violating the rules of the Geneva Conventions and engaging in actions that were considered to be illegal and harmful to the people of Libya and other countries.<>reddit_eli5