What dictates of the value of currency between countries ? Why does an American dollar equal 1.5 Euros etc . What \/ how is this decided ? Explain like I'm five.<>In most cases , supply and demand . No one decides what the dollar \/ Euro ratio is - it is much better understood as an auction where at 1.5 , there is a roughly the same number of people buying as selling Euros . In some other cases , for example the Hong Kong Dollar , the ratio is determined by the Hong Kong government .<>The value of a country's currency is determined by a variety of factors, including the country's economic strength and stability, the level of inflation, and the level of demand for the currency. When there is high demand for a particular currency, it tends to be worth more compared to other currencies.\n\nFor example, if a lot of people want to buy goods and services in a country that uses the Euro, they will need to exchange their own currency (such as the US dollar) for Euros. If there is a lot of demand for Euros, the value of the Euro will increase relative to other currencies, which means that it will take more of another currency (such as the US dollar) to buy a Euro. On the other hand, if there is not a lot of demand for Euros, the value of the Euro will decrease relative to other currencies, which means that it will take fewer of another currency (such as the US dollar) to buy a Euro.\n\nThe value of a currency can also be influenced by the actions of central banks and governments. For example, a central bank may decide to buy or sell large amounts of its own currency in order to try to influence the value of the currency. Governments may also adopt policies that affect the demand for their currency, such as setting interest rates or implementing trade policies.\n\nThe exchange rate between two currencies, such as the US dollar and the Euro, is simply the rate at which one currency can be exchanged for another. This exchange rate is constantly changing, depending on the supply and demand for each currency. It is determined by the foreign exchange market, which is a global market where currencies are bought and sold.<>reddit_eli5