Why is there only one internet ? With all of the problems with our current internet , why are we unable to just \" create a new one \" ? Explain like I'm five.<>Think of it like roads . Roads connect locations to each other , much like the internet connects computers and networks . You can get from one place to another via many different routes , but they 're all part of the same system of roads . When one town has its own system of roads and builds a road to a freeway or something , it 's connecting its \" network \" to the greater \" internet . \" Creating a new system of roads would require creating connections between towns that do n't use the same roads that we already have - like building a second set of roads on top of our current set of roads . It would be redundant and expensive , and we would n't really gain much from it . And , to answer your question , if we connect that series of roads to the current set of roads , they join the \" internet \" that already exists . It makes a lot more sense to improve infrastructure that already exists , rather than building a new one . It 's like the difference between filling potholes in the road you already have , instead of building a second road that takes a different route because the current one is a bumpy ride .<>The internet is a network of interconnected computers and servers that allow people all around the world to communicate and share information with each other. It's kind of like a really big neighborhood where everyone can talk to each other and visit each other's houses (websites).\r\n\r\nWe can't just create a new internet because it would be really hard to get everyone to switch to using it. Think about it: if you moved to a new neighborhood, you would have to tell all of your friends and family your new address so they could come visit you. It would be really confusing if everyone had to move to a new neighborhood all at once and remember a bunch of new addresses. It would be easier if we just all stayed in the same neighborhood and made it better. That's what we're trying to do with the internet.<>reddit_eli5