what exactly happens to your skin when it reacts to posion ivy ? I have a nice little patch of it on my arm and I 've just been staring at it too long . Please explain like I'm five.<>It 's called a type IV hypersensitivity reaction , more commonly known as an allergic reaction . This is a special type of allergic reaction that is not caused by histamine like most allergies are . This type of reaction is due to T cells attacking your own cells because they have an antigen ( poison ivy ) in them and your immune system thinks that it 's a virus or bacteria . The end result is that your immune system ends up attacking your own cells , which activates the inflammatory response , which is what causes the redness and itchiness . One thing to note is that you need to be sensitized in order to have this type of reaction . That means that you brushed against some poison ivy at some other time and that \" activated \" your immune response . Since it has now been activated , the next time you come in contact with poison ivy , you will get the associated dermatitis . Edit : Sorry , I forgot to mention this . Cortisone should help with the itchiness and inflammation . Antihistamines wo n't do shit .<>Poison ivy is a plant that can cause an allergic reaction in some people when their skin comes into contact with the plant's sap, which is a sticky, clear liquid that helps the plant transport nutrients. When the sap touches your skin, it can cause an itchy, red rash to develop. The rash is usually made up of small, red bumps or blisters, and it can be very uncomfortable. The rash is caused by an immune system reaction to the plant's sap. When the sap touches your skin, your body recognizes it as something foreign and dangerous, and your immune system works to get rid of it. Part of this process involves releasing chemicals called histamines, which can cause inflammation and swelling in the affected area. This is what leads to the redness, itching, and swelling that you might experience if you come into contact with poison ivy. It's important to avoid touching poison ivy if you can, and to wash your skin thoroughly with soap and water if you do come into contact with it. If the rash is very severe or if you have a lot of blisters, you may need to see a doctor for treatment. In the meantime, you can try using over-the-counter creams or ointments to help soothe the itching and reduce swelling.<>reddit_eli5