How to move out of a country e.g. Moving from USA to Canada , France , England , etc . Explain like I'm five.<>It depends on whether you want to simply live in that country or change your citizenship . If you want to go somewhere for a long period of time ( usually longer than 90 days ) , you will need a visa ; most countries have treaties that waive the requirement for a 90 - day tourist visa , which is why you do n't need one for a short vacation . Visas are issued by the consulates of the country you 're going to , and there are different types with different requirements ( depends on the country ) . Examples are student visa , spouse visa ( i.e. you 're married to a citizen of that country ) , and work visa . You will probably have to present proof that you can support yourself financially , and possibly proof that you have somewhere to live . The consulate may actually check your references ( landlord , employer , family member who lives in that country ) . The visa application process will probably take at least a month , if not more . Countries may also * not * allow you to apply for a visa while on a tourist visa , so you ca n't take a vacation and then just say \" I think I 'll move here ! \" Most visas are issued for fixed timespans ; you will have to renew your visa when it expires . If you lose certain qualifications that you needed for the visa , you may be given a short time period to regain that qualification before being deported ; if you 're on a student visa and you drop out of school , they might give you 90 days to either enroll in a new school or go home . Again , this all depends on the country . Countries may also offer long - term \/ permanent resident visas , which have stricter requirements that usually include having been in the country for a certain length of time ( e.g. 10 + years ) . You can also become \" naturalized , \" and change your citizenship entirely . Some countries allow dual citizenship , while others do not ; if your home country does n't , you ~~will~~ may have to surrender that passport . ( ~~For reference , the US does not allow dual citizenship , but some countries may be nice about not taking your passport away , and the US may be nice and pretend you do n't have another passport . It depends.~~ ) Naturalization also has requirements , which may vary based on your employment , martial status , if you have children who were born in that country , etc . As a brief sidebar , the US requires all citizens to file a federal income tax return ( many countries do not require one for income earned in other countries ) , but allows you to claim up to a certain amount of foreign income as exempt . As of 2012 , that amount is around $ 90,000 . Again , all of the above may change depending on the countries in question . Sources : I moved from the US to Japan ( still a US citizen ) . The naturalization bit is courtesy of my mother ( born Canadian , naturalized American ) . Edit : I was wrong about US dual - citizenship ( they still do n't like it , but apparently it 's OK : URL_0 )<>Sure! If you want to move to a different country, there are a few steps you need to follow:\n\nResearch the country you want to move to: Make sure you know what the weather is like, what the culture is like, and what the cost of living is. You should also make sure you understand the laws and regulations of the country you want to move to.\n\nGet a passport: A passport is a special document that allows you to travel to other countries. If you don't already have a passport, you will need to apply for one.\n\nFind a place to live: You will need to find a place to live in the country you are moving to. This could be an apartment, a house, or a room in a shared house.\n\nPack your things: You will need to pack your belongings into boxes or suitcases so you can take them with you to your new home.\n\nArrange transportation: You will need to figure out how you will get to your new home. This could be by plane, train, or car.\n\nMove: Once you have everything ready, it's time to move! You will need to travel to your new home and unpack your things once you get there.\n\nI hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5