How does spilled water left alone dry at room temperature ? ELI5 How does spilled water which has been left alone dry at room temperature ? Explain like I'm five.<>Molecules in a liquid bounce move around inside the liquid . If you make the liquid hotter , the molecules move faster , and if you make the liquid colder , the molecules move slower . Water molecules that are near each other form weak bonds , kiiiind of like magnets pulling on each other ( but not exactly ) . That 's what causes two drops of water on a windshield to stick together when they hit each other . But if the water molecules are moving fast enough , they break these bonds . When you boil water , you 're speeding up the molecules until all of them have enough energy to break the bonds . But what about your spilled water ? It 's not hotter than the boiling point ! Well , in any pool of liquid , some of the molecules are moving fast , and some are moving slow . The average speed of the room - temperature spilled water is less than the average speed of a pot of boiling water , but some of the spilled water molecules will be fast enough to break their bonds . If one of these fast - moving molecules is near the surface of the water and moving in the right direction , it 'll escape the puddle into the air . This is called evaporation . If you spread out the puddle more , you 'll see faster evaporation , because you 're giving more fast - moving molecules the chance to escape . Given enough time , all the molecules will eventually separate and the puddle will dry up .<>Water is made up of tiny molecules that are constantly moving and bumping into each other. When you spill water on a surface, the water molecules will spread out and begin to evaporate, or turn into a gas. This process happens because the water molecules have enough energy to break free from the surface and rise into the air.\n\nAs the water molecules rise into the air, they will eventually cool down and turn back into a liquid, forming tiny droplets called humidity. If the air is already full of humidity, then the water molecules will not be able to evaporate as quickly, and it will take longer for the water to dry. If the air is dry, then the water will evaporate more quickly, and the spilled water will dry faster.\n\nSo, when you spill water and leave it alone at room temperature, the water molecules will eventually evaporate and turn into a gas, leaving the surface dry.<>reddit_eli5