What causes lump near vagina when having constipation?18 year old female. constipated these past few days with thick, white, stringy mucus discharge after i poop. have a lump that appears between my vagina and anus. if I am successful at having a bowel movement the lump goes away, otherwise its there when I sit to try to go to bathroom.what could be the problem here?<>Hi, dearI have gone through your question. I can understand your concern. You have hemorrhoid ( piles ). You should take plenty of water and high fiber diet. Avoid constipation. This will help you to releive symptoms.  Avoid spicy food. Lignocain gel can be used for pain releif. Permenent treatment of choice is surgery. Consult your doctor and plan accordingly. Hope I have answered your question, if you have doubt then I will be happy to answer. Thanks for using health care magic. Wish you a very good health.<>It is possible that the lump you are experiencing is a rectal prolapse. This occurs when the rectum, which is the last part of the large intestine, protrudes through the anus. Rectal prolapse can be caused by chronic constipation, straining to have bowel movements, and other factors such as aging, being pregnant, or having a history of gynecological surgery.\n\nIf you are experiencing a rectal prolapse, it is important to see a healthcare provider as soon as possible. Treatment for rectal prolapse may include medications, lifestyle changes such as increasing your fiber intake and exercising regularly, and in some cases, surgery.\n\nIn the meantime, it is important to try to manage your constipation by drinking plenty of fluids, eating a high-fiber diet, and getting regular exercise. It may also be helpful to use a stool softener or a mild laxative to help make bowel movements easier.\n\nIt is also important to note that there could be other potential causes for the lump you are experiencing, such as a cyst or an abscess. It is always best to see a healthcare provider to get a proper diagnosis and treatment plan.<>medicine