The Michelin Star restaurant guide How did a tire company become a source for fine dining ? And why do restaurants care so much ? Are there other '' star '' programs out there rating restaurants like Michelin ? Please explain like I'm five.<>It started as a travel guide for motorists , which makes sense in that Michelin wanted to encourage motor travel ( to sell more tires ) . As it matured , the reviews got better and better and people began to trust it as an authoritative guide to what was good and bad . Restaurants care because consumers care . I make a point of going to Michelin star restaurants when I travel ; I want to eat there because its some of the best food in an area . As such , they can charge more per head than a normal restaurant simply because so many people feel like I do . There are many other rating programs . The Automobile Association , for example , gives out 1 - 5 rosettes based on quality .<>The Michelin Star restaurant guide is a rating system for restaurants that was created by the Michelin tire company. The guide was first published in 1900 as a way to help people find good places to eat while they were traveling. Over time, the guide has become very well-respected and is seen as a sign of excellence in the restaurant industry.Restaurants care about the Michelin Star guide because it can be very good for business. A restaurant that has been awarded one or more Michelin stars is likely to attract more customers and command higher prices for its food. This is because the guide is seen as a reliable source of information about which restaurants are the best.There are other restaurant rating systems out there, but the Michelin Star guide is one of the most well-known and respected. Some other examples of restaurant rating systems include the AAA Diamond rating system and the Forbes Travel Guide.<>The Michelin Star restaurant guide is a rating system for restaurants that was created by the Michelin tire company. The guide was first published in 1900 as a way to help people find good places to eat while they were traveling. Over time, the guide has become very well-respected and is seen as a sign of excellence in the restaurant industry.Restaurants care about the Michelin Star guide because it can be very good for business. A restaurant that has been awarded one or more Michelin stars is likely to attract more customers and command higher prices for its food. This is because the guide is seen as a reliable source of information about which restaurants are the best.There are other restaurant rating systems out there, but the Michelin Star guide is one of the most well-known and respected. Some other examples of restaurant rating systems include the AAA Diamond rating system and the Forbes Travel Guide.<>reddit_eli5