Why ca n't governments print more money if they are in debt ? like ca n't they do it secretly or something ? Explain like I'm five.<>Say you have a rare pokemon card you do n't really need , so you decide to trade to a friend for his lunch . Now suppose your friend does n't want your rare pokemon card , because he already has one . So you try to trade your pokemon card to another friend for his lunch instead , only to find out that he too already has it . Well , as it turns out , your rare pokemon card is n't rare anymore because the people who make those cards decided to print a lot more of them . Now everyone has them ! The result is that your not - so - rare - anymore pokemon card is not worth as much as it used to , which means people will demand more of your pokemon cards in exchange for what you want to buy . In other words , when you print money , prices increase proportionally ( inflation ) .<>Sure! Let's say that a government is in debt and wants to pay off its debts by printing more money. Here's what might happen:\n\nThe government prints more money and uses it to pay off its debts.\n\nAs the government is printing more money, the value of the money in circulation goes down. This is because there is now more of it, but the same amount of goods and services to buy. So, each unit of the currency is worth less.\n\nAs the value of the money goes down, prices for goods and services go up. This is because it takes more units of the currency to buy the same thing.\n\nWhen prices go up, it becomes more expensive for people to buy things they need. This can be a problem, especially for people who are on fixed incomes or who have limited resources.\n\nIf the government keeps printing more and more money, the value of the currency can drop significantly, leading to hyperinflation. This can make it very difficult for people to plan for the future or save money, because the value of their savings is decreasing rapidly.\n\nSo, while a government might be able to temporarily pay off its debts by printing more money, it can also cause a lot of problems for the people who use that currency. That's why most governments try to avoid printing too much money and instead use other methods to manage their debts.<>reddit_eli5