How is basic universal income different than unconditional welfare ? At the end of the day , would n't basic income still just be the government giving away free money ? Explain like I'm five.<>They are similar concepts designed to solve similar problems , but there are subtle differences . Basically , welfare only goes to the needy . You generally have to apply for it . Basic universal income goes to everybody , rich and poor , whether or not you 've applied for it . This impacts ideal tax policy at the lower income levels while creating certain buts of bureaucracy and eliminating others . It also means the amount given to citizens goes up , so a corresponding tax has to be raised or deficits have to be incurred . Since taxation is almost always expressed as percentages and the basic income is expressed as a defined amount , this would mean that tax burden is shifted up from the lower middle - class to the upper - middle class , flattening their post - tax earnings somewhat . The big theoretical benefit , however , is that it would eliminate some of the worst aspects welfare . Welfare incentivizes people to work under the table ( pay no taxes and usually work bad jobs ) , disincentives them to find a permanent job or part - time job ( they can lose welfare benefits and have to work a lot more to earn only a little more ) , and makes them feel like terrible people when they have to wait in line and beg a bureaucrat for money to survive . A basic income has none of these problems , but it comes at a higher cost to the budget .<>Basic universal income and unconditional welfare are similar in that they are both programs that provide people with financial assistance. However, there are some key differences between the two.\r\n\r\nUnconditional welfare is a program that provides financial assistance to people who are in need. This assistance is typically given to people who are unable to work due to illness, disability, or other circumstances. The amount of assistance that people receive is usually based on their need and is intended to help them meet their basic needs, such as food, shelter, and medical care.\r\n\r\nBasic universal income, on the other hand, is a program that provides a regular, unconditional payment to everyone in a community or country, regardless of their income or employment status. The idea behind basic universal income is to provide a safety net for everyone, so that everyone has enough money to meet their basic needs.\r\n\r\nSo in short, both programs provide financial assistance to people, but unconditional welfare is targeted at people who are in need, while basic universal income is provided to everyone.<>reddit_eli5