Can Pred Cort be given to a child for impetigo?Hi, my daughter is 19 months and was diagnosed with Impetigo. She was given an oral antibiotic and ointment expecting the bumps to heal as antibiotic would kill bacteria. However after 3 days lesions are still coming up and went back to doctor who prescribed pred cort. Is this safe and will it help. why did more lesions come out if antibiotic was to kill the bacteria to dry up existing and prevent more<>Hi, I'am Dr Suresh K Yadav MD (paediatrics), I had gone through your question and understand your concerns,Use of Predcort , in a child initially having impetigo indicates component of allergy with infection , more lesions can come if it was associated with a component of allergy.second possibly may be initial diagnosis was probably not accurate and it allergic in nature. Difficult to comment on skin lesions without examining .Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your questionsTake care.<>It is generally safe to use topical corticosteroids, such as prednisone, for the treatment of impetigo in children. Corticosteroids can help to reduce inflammation and redness in the affected area, and may also help to speed up the healing process. However, it is important to use these medications as directed by a healthcare professional and to follow their recommendations for use.\n\nIt is possible that the oral antibiotic prescribed to your daughter was not effective at eliminating the bacteria causing the impetigo, which is why the lesions continued to appear. In such cases, a different antibiotic may be needed. Alternatively, the prednisone ointment may help to reduce the inflammation and improve the appearance of the lesions, even if the bacteria are not completely eliminated.\n\nIt is important to continue using the ointment as directed and to follow up with your healthcare provider if you have any concerns about your daughter's treatment. It is also important to practice good hygiene, such as washing your hands frequently and keeping the affected area clean, to help prevent the spread of infection.<>medicine