How do credit card payments work? What ensures the retailer charges the right amount?<>Your credit card limit is nothing more than a simple number.  When you purchase something, the merchant receives a number (i.e. the amount of the transaction) from your card company (e.g. Visa) in their bank account, and that number is subtracted from your limit (added to your balance). The amount is recorded, and isn't changed, so that's how they get the \"exact\" amount you paid.  Transferring a number is easier than the retailer having to wait for cash to get from you to your card company to them.  Moving numbers around is the basis of the modern financial system. And yes, it is always a risk to let someone else have your credit card number.  An untrustworthy company\/person may use it to charge you without your permission, or if they have your full details they could use it as if they were you.  With a reputable retailer like Amazon, the main risk is data theft: If a security hole is found in Amazon's system, someone could steal your credit card info and misuse it.<>When you make a purchase with a credit card, the retailer will charge a specific amount to your credit card account. This amount is typically determined by the cost of the items you are purchasing, plus any applicable taxes and fees.To process the payment, the retailer will use a credit card terminal or a point-of-sale system that is connected to a credit card processor. The processor will verify that your credit card has sufficient funds available to cover the purchase, and then it will transfer the funds from your credit card account to the retailer's bank account.To ensure that the retailer charges the correct amount, the terminal or point-of-sale system will typically display the amount of the purchase before you confirm the payment. You can verify that this amount is correct and make any necessary adjustments before completing the payment. Additionally, you will receive a receipt for the transaction, which will show the amount charged to your credit card. You can use this receipt to verify that the correct amount was charged to your account.<>When you make a purchase with a credit card, the retailer will charge a specific amount to your credit card account. This amount is typically determined by the cost of the items you are purchasing, plus any applicable taxes and fees.To process the payment, the retailer will use a credit card terminal or a point-of-sale system that is connected to a credit card processor. The processor will verify that your credit card has sufficient funds available to cover the purchase, and then it will transfer the funds from your credit card account to the retailer's bank account.To ensure that the retailer charges the correct amount, the terminal or point-of-sale system will typically display the amount of the purchase before you confirm the payment. You can verify that this amount is correct and make any necessary adjustments before completing the payment. Additionally, you will receive a receipt for the transaction, which will show the amount charged to your credit card. You can use this receipt to verify that the correct amount was charged to your account.<>finance