How do our bodies \" read \" DNA ? I know that DNA is the order of chemicals telling the body \/ cells what to do , but how do the cells know what the DNA means ? Explain like I'm five. <>Well , the cells do n't exactly \" know \" what the DNA means , per se . The process of converting genes ( DNA ) into their functional output , typically proteins , begins with a process called transcription . During this process , an enzyme ( a type of protein ) scans the DNA and makes a copy of a gene . But , instead of copying it in the form of DNA , it makes a copy of it in the form of RNA . A good analogy to this would be if your mother emailed you a recipe and you did n't have a printer handy , so you wrote instead , you write it down . The message still says the same thing , but it is in printed handwriting instead of electronic data . The next step in the process is converting that RNA information into something that is functional , a protein . This happens in a cell structure called the ribosome . The newly created RNA enters the ribosome , and through a process called translation . Essentially , the ribosome \" decodes \" the RNA and translates it into the language or proteins . A cells in every living organism convert the RNA information into proteins using the same genetic code by reading it in three letter ( A , C , G , T ) chunks called codons . The codons tell the ribosome how to build the protein and when to stop adding pieces . These pieces are called amino acids . Going back to the analogy , this is like you reading the recipe , combining the ingredients , and cooking it in the correct way . Protein translation is essentially the same thing , turning 1 - dimensional information into a 3 - dimensional product . Now , if you are asking how the cell knows which genes to activate or not to activate , that is another discussion . I would be more than willing to discuss that as well if you are interested .<>Sure! DNA is like a set of instructions for your body. It's made up of small units called nucleotides, which are arranged in a specific order that spells out the instructions.\\n\\nInside each of your cells, there are tiny machines called ribosomes that read the instructions in your DNA. They do this by using a special chemical called RNA, which copies the instructions from the DNA and carries them to the ribosomes.\\n\\nThe ribosomes then use the instructions from the RNA to make proteins, which are special molecules that do all sorts of important jobs in your body. For example, proteins can help build new cells, fight off infections, and even carry messages from one part of your body to another.\\n\\nSo, to sum it up: your cells use special machines called ribosomes to read the instructions in your DNA and make proteins based on those instructions. The proteins do all sorts of important things in your body to keep you healthy and working properly.<>reddit_eli5