LI5 - Radiocarbon dating and other dating methods ? How do they work , how is accuracy determined , do stats get massaged ? What can a lay - person do to verify any of findings of researchers and scientists ? Explain like I'm five.<>Radiocarbon dating works by comparing what isotopes you have now to how long it would take a given amount of material to get to that state . Radioactive things decay in a precise order , called a [ decay chain ] ( URL_0 ) . Imagine I made a glass of ice water and put it in a room an unknown time ago . I want you to tell me how long its been sitting there , how can you figure it out ? You start by assuming things , like average room temperature , humidity , etc . to get a model as to how the ice would melt , warm , and evaporate . You can then test the water ( if there 's any left ) to determine how cold it is , and if there 's any ice left in it . You weigh the ice ( if there 's any left ) and figure out how much melted , and how long it would take to get to that state . If there 's no ice , the temperature of the water can give you a good estimate on how long its been warming up in the room . If most of the water is gone , you can then figure out how long it would take for that amount of water to have evaporated and get an estimate on how long the glass is sitting . Now pretend the cup is empty , you are more or less screwed on figuring out how long its been there . You 'll have to devise another method , or just state its older than however old your test could give as a date . Accuracy is a different story . Usually Radioactive dating uses generally accepted methods to verify their accuracy . If an item is known to be 1000 years old , it might be a calibration tool for some isotope chains . Typically those isotope chains are used to calibrate chains that last even longer , as we do n't have verification on items from 100,000 + yrs ago .<>Radiocarbon dating is a method for determining the age of an object that was once alive, like a plant or animal. It works by measuring the amount of a special type of carbon called \"carbon-14\" in the object. Carbon-14 is a radioactive isotope, which means that it has an unstable nucleus and it will eventually decay into another element. Scientists can measure the amount of carbon-14 in an object and compare it to the amount of regular carbon, which is stable and doesn't decay. By comparing these two amounts, scientists can figure out how old the object is. Accuracy in radiocarbon dating is determined by comparing the results of the radiocarbon dating method to other methods that are used to determine the age of an object. For example, if an object is found to be 10,000 years old using radiocarbon dating, and the object's age is also estimated to be 10,000 years old using other methods like tree-ring dating or sediment layers, then scientists can be confident that the radiocarbon dating method is accurate. It is important to note that radiocarbon dating is only accurate for objects that are less than about 50,000 years old. For objects that are older, other methods like potassium-argon dating or uranium-lead dating may be used. As a layperson, you can verify the findings of researchers and scientists by reading about their research and asking questions. You can also look for independent sources that confirm or refute their findings. It's also a good idea to be skeptical of any claims that seem too good to be true, and to seek out multiple sources of information before making any conclusions.<>reddit_eli5