How to remove forehead stitch marks?hey! im 13 years old and very insecure, i have a two stich marks on my forehead, and they scared, they bother me alot and i dont know what to do! , can you help me please? i already have sidebangs to sorta cover it, but i feel ugly with them! can creams work? , i dont want surgery im only 13! please help!<>Hi, welcome to HCM. Nowadays there are many creams available which can decrease the scar marks. If I was your treating doctor, i would have given scarend cream for local application, this should be applied three times daily for a period of 6 months for satisfactory results. I hope this has helped you. Take care. Regards - Dr Deepak Patel, MD Pediatrics<>I'm sorry to hear that you are feeling insecure about the stitch marks on your forehead. It's natural to want to feel confident and comfortable in your own skin, and it's important to remember that everyone has unique features that make them who they are.\n\nTo help reduce the appearance of stitch marks on your forehead, you can try the following:\n\nMoisturize: Keep the area well-moisturized with a gentle, non-irritating moisturizer. This can help to soften the skin and reduce the appearance of scars.\n\nUse scar-reducing creams: There are a number of over-the-counter creams and gels that are specifically designed to help reduce the appearance of scars. These products can be found at most pharmacies and drugstores.\n\nTry massaging the area: Gently massaging the area around the stitch marks can help to improve circulation and promote healing.\n\nProtect the area from the sun: Stitch marks are more prone to discoloration when exposed to the sun, so be sure to use a sunscreen with at least SPF 30 to protect your skin.\n\nBe patient: It can take time for stitch marks to fade, so be patient and try to be kind to yourself. Remember that everyone's skin is different, and it may take longer for some people's scars to fade.\n\nIt's important to remember that it's normal to have imperfections, and that it's okay to be unique. Don't let the stitch marks on your forehead define you or make you feel less confident. You are beautiful just the way you are.<>medicine