How does funding for the Olympics work ? The Sochi cost $ 51 billion dollars ; where did that money come from ? Is it through taxes ? Does the country raise taxes if they are preparing for an Olympics ? Explain like I'm five.<>The International Olympic Committee gets most of its funds from selling the media rights for the games . For example NBC paid the IOC 1 Billion dollars for the rights for the next summer games . There is also sponsorship . McDonald 's pays the IOC for the right to use the Olympic rings and name in their adds . This funds the IOC and their day to day activities . Mainly as the governing body that chooses the location , sets the events , sets the rules , tests the athletes , officiates the games \/ finds qualified officials , ect . ect . big picture things . I think each member state is also supposed to contribute but the real money comes from media and mechanizing rights sales . The national Olympic committees are funded by each nation . Some run off tax revenue , some also sell rights \/ merch , or have corporate sponsorship too . It 's why rich America can fund teams in nearly every sport , and provided them with state of the art practice facilities while swimmers from African nations have to practice in hotel pools . The IOC sets some rules for how each nation runs its own Olympic committee but really how it 's run and how it 's paid for are left up to that nation in particular . The actual games themselves are paid for by the host country . Again through taxes , loans , or private sponsorship ( like a private company pays for a new stadium that the Olympics will use for 3 weeks and then the company gets to own the new stadium after that . ) Its expected the Host Country will bear down most if not all of the cost of the infrastructure and security : stadiums , pools , tracks , roads , hotels , bathrooms , the Athletes Village , media logistics , and security for it all . The IOC I believe funds the officials and judging parts . The athletes are either amateurs or paid \/ given gifts by their own country 's OC . A host country could raise taxes , or like what Atlanta did in 1994 , raise municipal bonds ( fancy government loans ) and partner up with private companies for sponsorship \/ usage deals . I do n't know if ticket sales go to the IOC , Host country , or a third party , but again the profits from tickets really pale to the profits from TV and rebroadcasting rights . Edit : To better answer your direct question about the $ 15 billion Sochi games , that money came from the Russian Government because they were the host . Though there was a lot of shady financing and contracts and corruption so who knows what the games really cost .<>The Olympic Games are a major international event that requires a lot of money to fund. There are many different sources of funding for the Olympics, including government money, private sponsorships, and ticket sales.\r\n\r\nIn the case of the Sochi Olympics, the Russian government provided a significant amount of the funding. This money came from taxes that were paid by the people of Russia. It's possible that the government may have raised taxes in order to help pay for the Olympics, but I don't have specific information about that.\r\n\r\nIn addition to government funding, the Sochi Olympics also received money from private sponsors and corporate sponsors. These are companies that paid to have their names and products associated with the Olympics in some way.\r\n\r\nFinally, the Olympics also make money from ticket sales to events and merchandise sales.\r\n\r\nOverall, the Olympics are a very expensive event to host, and it takes a lot of money from many different sources to make it happen.<>reddit_eli5