why does lead protect you from nuclear radiation ? Is it because of lead 's density ? And are there other substances that do the same thing ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Firstly it 's important to realize there 's different different types of nuclear radiation . There are five types : * Alpha * Beta * Gamma * X - ray * Neutron ( which I 'll ignore for this question ) Different types of radiation have different effects . [ This image ] ( URL_0 ) is a very good model for the penetrating effects of radiation . Alpha particles ca n't penetrate the skin , but can be dangerous if ingested . The best example is the poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko with Polonium-210 which is an Alpha emitter . Beta particles can penetrate the skin for a few centimeters but not much more . These actually have been put to good use ; Beta emitters such as Iodine-131 are used in cancer treatment . You can reasonably selectively irradiate a cancer without affecting healthy tissue like with Gamma treatment . Alpha and Beta particles are limited in penetrating and are less of a health risk usually . Gamma and X - ray photons can penetrate tissue quite easily . It 's therefor important to take extra precautions while working with Gamma and X - Ray emitters . Lead is a high density metal which makes it well suited to stopping Gamma and X - ray radiation . Gold and silver have these properties as well but are more expensive , thallium , bismuth are more toxic . Depleted uranium works as well , but is both expensive and toxic . Lead is just the most convenient and safe material that is able to stop Gamma and X - ray radiation while remaining convenient to work with . Lead is also relatively easy to work with and easily available .<>Lead is effective at protecting against nuclear radiation because it is dense and heavy. This means that it is able to block or absorb radiation, which makes it difficult for the radiation to pass through it. Lead is also able to absorb radiation because it is a chemical element with a high atomic number, which means that it has a lot of protons and neutrons in the nucleus of its atoms. These protons and neutrons can absorb radiation, which helps to protect the body from the harmful effects of radiation.There are other substances that can also protect against nuclear radiation, such as concrete and water. Concrete is dense and heavy, like lead, and is able to block or absorb radiation. Water is also able to absorb radiation, and is often used as a protective shield in nuclear power plants.<>reddit_eli5