Can someone please explain LI5 what redshift is ? What is the concept of redshift used in astronomy ? Explain like I'm five.<>Chris and Bob are playing with a slinky together . They 're a little odd , so the best thing they can think of is to have each of them hold one end , and have Bob run away from Chris while he is standing still . The two notice that the slinky stretches out when Bob does this . A bit later , they decide to have Bob run towards Chris ( who is still standing still ) . The slinky gets really tightly compressed and close together . You see , light is like that slinky . When Chris , or a planet , is moving away from us , the slinky , or light is stretched out . When Chris , or a planet , is moving towards us , the light is squished together . But what does that do to the light ? Well , [ here ] ( URL_0 ) is an image that might help . When light is * longer * , it 's to the left , and when it 's * shorter * , it 's to the right . [ Here ] ( URL_1 ) is another useful image , which also shows the \" slinky \" . So redshift just means that the \" slinky \" , which is light , is being stretched out . What does that tell us ? Think back to Chris and Bob . It means that the planet is moving away ! And if it was blue ( blueshift ) ? I leave that one to you .<>Sure! Redshift is a phenomenon that occurs when light from an object in the universe is stretched out, or shifted, to longer wavelengths. This can happen for a number of reasons, but one of the most important is that the object is moving away from us. Think about it like this: when you're on a bike and you blow a whistle, the sound waves move through the air and reach your friend's ears. If you're riding towards your friend, the sound waves get squashed together, so the pitch of the whistle sounds higher. But if you're riding away from your friend, the sound waves get stretched out, so the pitch of the whistle sounds lower. Light works the same way. When an object is moving towards us, the light waves get squashed together, which means the light appears to be more blue. But when an object is moving away from us, the light waves get stretched out, which means the light appears to be more red. This is why it's called \"redshift.\" Astronomers use redshift to figure out how fast objects in the universe are moving away from us. They can do this by measuring the amount of redshift in the light coming from the object. The more redshift there is, the faster the object is moving away. This is really important for understanding how the universe is expanding!<>reddit_eli5