Why are pro - gun people opposed to smart guns ? e.g. URL_0 Explain like I'm five.<>In general , there is a big worry in adding barriers to being able to use your own firearm . This is not to say we disagree with ' smart ' firearms , but so far all the ' smart ' options are pretty stupid . In general , there is a general disfavor shown to any technology that comes between a shooter and the trigger . Let me explain - this is not to say that we are all trigger happy , but simply that when a shooter has chosen to pull the trigger , we need to know what happens next is guaranteed . Systems like the one linked require you to be in close proximity to the firearm , which can be an issue if you want your spouse or children to be able to use it for self defense , or at the range while supervised . This one in particular is extra bad in that it requires a 5 - digit pin into a watch that * then * transmits to the gun . That 's multiple points of failure during a self - defense scenario that is unacceptable , nevermind that if the transmission is blocked or garbled that you ca n't use your firearm . There * is * a legitimate fear that a push for ' smart ' guns will allow for bad technological standards to be applied as a reaction to firearm crimes that * are * an issue , creating new problems that might provide the illusion of a solution in exchange for an unneeded reduction in personal freedom . For example , this kind of tech is the stuff senators like Feinstein jump onto and attempt to wield as an example of ' smart ' technology * standards * . And that is scary to gun owners who do n't like the idea of having to be tied to a * government regulated piece of equipment * just to be able to use your firearm . The TL;DR is that pro - gunners are n't opposed to technology that can reduce issues regarding the misuse of gun wholesale - but we want it to respect * our * rights and * our * autonomy such that we are not shackled to a third - party private or worse , a government - regulated entity , in order to exercise our rights . Edit : If you can present me with a piece of technology that can guarantee the operation of my firearm for me and people who I want to use it while denying its usage to anyone else that does not require reliance on a third - party service and provides a near - zero chance of failure in any circumstance I would be interested in that . But to date I do not think that any proposed ' Smart - Gun ' system has even come close to that sort of system .<>There are a few reasons why some people who are pro-gun might be opposed to smart guns. One reason might be that they are concerned about the reliability of the technology. They might be worried that the technology could fail at a crucial moment, such as if the gun is needed for self-defense.\r\n\r\nAnother reason might be that they are concerned about the cost of smart guns. These guns might be more expensive than traditional guns, and some people might not want to pay the extra money.\r\n\r\nFinally, some people might be opposed to smart guns because they are concerned about government regulations. They might worry that the government could require all guns to be smart guns, which would take away their choice to buy a traditional gun if they prefer it.<>reddit_eli5