Can a licensed radio station play whatever they want ? So they have to get permission from an artist to play a song ? Do they have to pay the artist ? . Explain like I'm five.<>In playing a song , radio stations are making ' public performances ' of a song that is protected by a couple different forms of copyright . The station has to pay performance royalties to a ' performing rights society ' who then pass that money on to the artists , who are members of that society . When you think of a song , it 's actually two things : 1 ) The song or ' composition ' which is to say the lyrics and to some extent the recognisable melody as written by the songwriter(s ) and 2 ) The ' master recording ' which is to say the mixed recording that is available on CD \/ mp3 \/ vinyl \/ etc which is more often than not owned by the record label that released it . The smaller radio stations tend to pay what is called a ' blanket license ' , which is an annual fee calculated using various factors such as their audience listening figures . Larger audiences means larger license fees . This blanket license then allows the radio station to play whatever songs they like that are administered by that collection society . Some radio stations have to report exactly what songs they play each week and how often , and they pay per usage accordingly . Others just have to pay the blanket license fee and are free to play whatever they like . Pretty much every song you could think of that has been released commercially , stretching back to the beginning of recorded music , is protected by a performing rights society . We 've established that the radio station must pay the songwriter a licence fee to their collection society in order to make a public performance of their song . So how does that money then reach the song writer ? This money , the performance royalty , is paid to the collection society , who then share that money equally between all the artists registered to them . Where the societies are paid for the use of a specific track , they 'll pay that money to the songwriters behind that track . The artists themselves make sure that they are personally registered to a collection society and will carefully register all the songs that they have written so that royalties can be fairly allocated . In the cases of songs that have multiple writers , they will all agree contractually the percentage of the song they each own ( naturally , this must total 100 % ) and the royalties for that song are split accordingly . The record companies also earn a bit of money from these public performances too - because it 's their ' master recording ' that the radio stations are playing back . To make this reporting easier , each song is given what is called an International Standard Recording Code , shortened to ISRC . This is a totally unique alpha - numeric identifier for each song , that makes reporting of public performances and sales much much easier than using the Artist and Title . Each country has its own collection society , some countries have several . The larger acts will make sure that they 're members of the larger societies - ASCAP and BMI in the USA , PPL and PRS in the UK - so they get money from performances in as many territories as possible . Many songwriters have their compositions administered by a Music Publisher , who for a fee take care of these registrations and because they are often multinational companies they have links with all societies worldwide and will be able to collect royalties worldwide . These performance royalties can amount to a significant percentage of an artists annual income , particularly if their songs have had significant radio plays . High profile artists like Eminem , Lady Gaga , Beyonce etc will earn six or seven figure sums each year as a result of these royalties , on top of their record sales royalties .<>Yes, a licensed radio station needs to get permission from the artist or copyright holder to play a song on the air. This is because the artist or copyright holder owns the rights to the song and has the right to control how it is used and distributed. In order to play the song on the radio, the radio station needs to obtain a license from the artist or copyright holder, which allows them to play the song on the air in exchange for payment. The payment, known as a royalty, is typically a percentage of the revenue that the radio station generates from advertising or other sources. The artist or copyright holder is entitled to receive these royalties because they are the ones who created the music and are allowing the radio station to use it.<>reddit_eli5