Q. What causes severe toothache at night?Hello doctor,I am facing a toothache problem, especially at night times. There is higher pain from the last three days. Please suggest me a solution for toothache problem.<>Hello. As you are describing it as night pain it looks like the infection in your tooth has reached pulp and now requires root canal treatment. Please get an X-ray done and send the photo of the X-ray as soon as possible. For now, you may take the following medications for three days: Amoxicillin clavulanate 625 mg, twice a day, Paracetamol 500 mg thrice a day, only when pain is there, otherwise take only Amoxicillin clavulanate tablets. Revert back with X-ray. Follow up after two days. Follow up after two days.<>There are several possible causes of severe toothache at night:\n\nCavities: Toothaches are often caused by cavities, which are small holes in the teeth that can be caused by a buildup of plaque and bacteria. Cavities can be especially painful at night because there is less saliva in the mouth, which can help to neutralize the acid produced by bacteria.\n\nInfection: Toothaches can also be caused by an infection in the tooth or the surrounding gum tissue. Infections can be caused by bacteria that enter the tooth through a cavity or a crack in the tooth.\n\nGum disease: Gum disease, or periodontal disease, can cause toothaches. This is an infection of the gums that can cause inflammation and pain in the teeth and gums.\n\nTooth grinding: Tooth grinding, also known as bruxism, can cause toothaches. This occurs when a person grinds their teeth together, often while they are sleeping.\n\nTooth trauma: Tooth trauma, such as a chipped or broken tooth, can cause toothaches.\n\nTo find relief from a toothache, you should see a dentist as soon as possible. They will be able to diagnose the cause of the toothache and recommend appropriate treatment, which may include filling a cavity, treating an infection, or repairing a broken tooth. In the meantime, you can try using over-the-counter pain medication to help alleviate the pain.<>medicine