What is the opposite of Economic Bubble? <>The opposite of an economic bubble is a bubble burst :p! Jokes aside though, an economic bubble occurs when the economy is in bull market mode and asset prices are growing very fast. It's usually measured by ratio's like price to earnings and the levels of various market indices. So, the opposite would be when valuations are falling very fast or are very low, and price to earnings ratios are low.  This condition is usually a recession. A recession is a market slowdown, generally after a bubble bursts, and severe recessions can become depressions if they last long enough (Great Depression, 1930s).  A bubble is not necessarily negative - stock prices usually rise a lot so paper wealth is greatly magnified. If you can get out in time, you're golden. Similarly, a recession isn't bad for everyone. Some investors keep large amounts of cash waiting for recessions so they can \"buy low, sell high\". For most people, however, recessions are negative because unemployment increases and some people get fired, and the economy slows down. Asset prices have fallen so their investments are worth less than they used to be (on paper), and people mainly have to bide it out until the market starts growing again.<>The opposite of an economic bubble is a period of economic stability or a period of steady, consistent growth. An economic bubble is a situation in which the price of an asset, such as a stock, a commodity, or a piece of real estate, rises rapidly and then collapses, often causing significant financial losses for those who invested in the asset. This can occur when speculators drive up the price of an asset beyond its true value, leading to a bubble that eventually bursts.During a period of economic stability, prices of assets tend to fluctuate within a certain range and do not experience rapid or excessive increases or decreases. This can be seen as the opposite of an economic bubble, as it is a more stable and sustainable pattern of growth. Economic stability can be achieved through various means, such as strong economic policies, a stable financial system, and sound business practices.<>finance