The difference between the Old and New testament ? I 've never read either , but have both . Just curious what the difference is ? Thanks in advance Please explain like I'm five.<>The old testament is a primarily Jewish collection of documents , detailing the history of the Jewish people and their respective mythologies , laws , and military conquests . Many sections are extremely old , and it is highly valued for its insight into ancient near - eastern religion and culture . The new testament , however , is a much newer product of individuals in the first century AD , after the death of Jesus . They are primarily letters written by followers of Jesus Christ and his disciples , to churches and communities that they set up as the traveled the region spreading the news of this very young religion ( Christianity ) . These letters are almost entirely focused on the message of Jesus , converting people into this new religion , and explaining how adherents should act in accordance with the philosophies of Jesus .<>The Old Testament is the first part of the Bible, and it contains the religious teachings of the Jewish people. It is also known as the Hebrew Bible. The Old Testament is made up of 39 books and tells the story of God's relationship with the Jewish people. It contains stories about creation, the history of the Israelites, and the teachings of the prophets. The New Testament is the second part of the Bible, and it contains the teachings of Jesus Christ and the early Christian Church. It is made up of 27 books and tells the story of Jesus' life, death, and resurrection, and the spread of Christianity. The New Testament also contains letters from early Christian leaders, called the Epistles, which give guidance on how to live a Christian life. So, in short, the Old Testament is the part of the Bible that contains the religious teachings of the Jewish people, and the New Testament is the part of the Bible that contains the teachings of Jesus and the early Christian Church.<>reddit_eli5