The pros and cons of male circumcision ? As stated in the title . With Denmark about to vote on banning the process in their country , what are some pros and cons associated with circumcision ? How did the process become so popular in the USA ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Pros * In cases of unprotected sex with an HIV - positive person , some research has shown that transmission \/ contraction of the disease is up to 5 % less likely for circumcised males * Foreskin can sometimes develop problems \/ deformities , removing it prevents these problems * It 's marginally easier to keep clean * It \" looks nicer \" Cons * Foreskin is a natural part of the body so why perform unnecessary surgery ? * Foreskin contains tons of sensitive nerve endings and some research has claimed circumcision reduces sexual pleasure * Foreskin performs useful functions ( provides sliding action during sexual activity , reducing friction ; and also covers the head during normal activity , keeping it moisturized and protected from being desensitized ) * Complications during the procedure can result in permanent damage<>Circumcision is the surgical removal of the skin that covers the tip of the penis, also known as the foreskin. In the United States, circumcision is a common procedure that is often performed on newborn boys for cultural, religious, and personal reasons. \nThere are some potential benefits to circumcision, such as a slightly reduced risk of urinary tract infections, a reduced risk of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) such as HIV, and a reduced risk of certain types of cancer of the penis. However, these benefits are generally small and may not outweigh the potential risks and drawbacks of the procedure. \nOn the other hand, there are also potential risks and drawbacks associated with circumcision. The procedure is generally safe when performed by a trained and experienced healthcare provider, but there is a small risk of complications such as bleeding, infection, and scarring. There is also some debate over whether circumcision may affect sexual pleasure or function. Some people argue that circumcision may reduce sensitivity in the penis, while others argue that it has no effect or may even increase sensitivity. \nCircumcision is more common in the United States than in many other countries, partly due to historical and cultural factors. It has been practiced in the United States for over 100 years and is still performed on about 60% of newborn boys in the country. Some people in the United States choose to have their sons circumcised for personal or cultural reasons, while others do it for religious reasons.<>reddit_eli5