Historical Stock Prices of delisted company [duplicate]
You need a source of delisted historical data. Such data is typically only available from paid sources. According to my records, Lawson Software Inc listed on the NASDAQ on 7 Dec 2001 and delisted on 6 Jul 2011.  Its final traded price was $11.23.  It was taken over by Infor who bid $11.25 per share. Source: Symbol LWSN-201107 within Premium Data US delisted stocks historical data set available from http:\/\/www.premiumdata.net\/products\/premiumdata\/ushistorical.php Disclosure: I am a co-owner of Norgate \/ Premium Data.
I'm sorry, but it appears that you have asked a duplicate question. In general, it can be difficult to obtain historical stock prices for a delisted company, as the company is no longer publicly traded and therefore its stock is not actively traded on any exchange. However, there are a few sources that may be able to provide some limited historical data for delisted companies.One source for historical stock price data for delisted companies is the Wayback Machine, which is an online archive of websites. If the company had a website that provided stock price information, it is possible that the Wayback Machine has archived copies of the website and the stock price data it contained.Another source for historical stock price data for delisted companies is the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains records of all publicly traded companies, including those that have been delisted. You can search the SEC's EDGAR database for information on a delisted company, including its financial statements and other documents that may contain historical stock price data.It is also possible that there are other sources of historical stock price data for delisted companies, such as financial databases or news articles that mention the company's stock price at various points in time. You may be able to find some of this information by doing a web search or by contacting a financial professional or researcher who has access to specialized databases.
finance
