How can fire inspectors determine the cause of a fire from the rubble ? For example how can they determine it was an electrical fire or from a cigarette if the house burned down ? Please explain like I'm five.<>There are several ways they figure out how a fire was started from when they first arrive on the scene to when the fire is completely extinguished . It is commonly believed that a fire destroys all evidence of it 's source , but actually , the fire department usually gets there in time to stop it before it incinerates everything . Firefighters note the color of the flame , color of the smoke , amount of the smoke , how fast it burns , and even the sound the fire makes while it is burning . ( Burning wood sounds different when it 's been soaked with kerosene , for example ) . The fire inspector , investigators , or whoever it is that inspects the scene ( varies by state and city ) looks for things like [ char pattern ] ( URL_1 ) . Fire burns in a V - shape , so sometimes the char pattern can literally point to the origin ( like an outlet ) . Narrower V - shapes say that the fire was hotter than normal so something like gasoline or kerosene was used . A U - shape says that there was a \" pool \" of origin rather than a point of origin . Other things like the direction something melts can also help figure out how the fire was started . Light bulbs tend to melt towards the point of origin . Once the origin had been found , usually the next step is to determine if the fire was natural , electrical or chemical . Natural causes are usually pretty easy to determine . There is plenty of evidence , and usually witnesses , when a house is struck by lightning or enveloped by a California brush fire , for instance . Electrical problems are the most common cause of accidental fires . By examining a cord , or a fuse box , or an electric outlet , an expert can usually determine whether it was burned * by * the fire , or was the * source * of the fire . Chemical causes cover a wide range , from gas leak explosions to smoking in bed . They also look for unburnt clues . The shattered or cracked glass of the windows can provide indications . A dark soot layer on the glass could indicate a slow , smoldering fire like a cigarette dropped on a couch . Clear glass with an abnormal pattern of cracking could imply a very hot fire , possibly due to an accelerant . The depth or thickness of the ash can be indicative . For example , a thick layer of ash can mean an abnormally hot , fast - burning fire . Fire burns upward , so a fire that burned downward will arouse curiosity . The most common reason for a fire to burn downward is the presence of a liquid accelerant poured on the floor before the fire started . The liquid soaked down into the floor , and then the fire followed it downward to the concrete slab . [ Source of all this information . ] ( URL_0 )<>Fire investigators use a variety of tools and techniques to determine the cause of a fire. Here are some examples of how they might approach this task: 1. Examining the burn patterns: The way a fire burns can often provide clues about its cause. For example, an electrical fire may leave a \"V\" shaped burn pattern on the walls or ceiling, while a fire started by a cigarette might leave a circular burn pattern. 2. Testing for accelerants: If the fire investigator suspects that an accelerant, such as gasoline, was used to start the fire, they may use special tools to test for the presence of such materials in the rubble. 3. Interviewing witnesses: Fire investigators may also talk to people who were in the area when the fire started, as they may have seen or heard something that could help determine the cause of the fire. 4. Examining the electrical system: If the fire investigator thinks the fire might have been caused by an electrical issue, they may examine the wiring and electrical appliances in the rubble to see if they can identify any problems that might have caused the fire. 5. Using specialized equipment: Fire investigators may also use specialized equipment, such as thermal imaging cameras or gas detectors, to help identify the cause of the fire. Overall, determining the cause of a fire can be a complex process that requires careful examination and analysis of the available evidence.<>reddit_eli5