Why is the BICEP2 - discovery so ' spectacular ' ? Today there was an ' announcement ' about the Big Bang . What is discovered and why is this so ' spectacular ' and potentially a Nobel prize ? Please explain like I'm five.
edit : * * There 's another thread [ here ] ( URL_0 ) with some great explanations that I encourage everyone to read . * * Alright , here goes . So , we know the big bang happened . This is n't confirming the big bang , we 've known it 's true for a long time and we were n't looking for \" proof \" for it , frankly . The issue is that as we measure it right now , space is expanding at a certain pace , and it seems to have been expanding at roughly that pace for 99.99999 % of the universe 's history . If we extrapolate that rate of expansion backwards in time until the big bang , though , it 's \" too big . \" It would be like rewinding a video of someone blowing up a balloon , but when you get to the beginning of the video , the balloon 's partially inflated . We * should * find that the universe is at a single point , but the calculation says that it 's bigger . What that means is that there had to be an \" inflationary period \" right after the big bang , where the universe expanded * extremely * fast . Either that , or we have the age of the universe wrong , and we need to go back to the drawing board . BICEP2 confirmed that there was a rapid inflation period . Theorists had predicted that it happened , and frankly pretty much everyone agreed that it happened , but now we have * proof . * The way it was confirmed is sort of complicated . If you start with everything compressed , and then it expands , its gravitational field will change . If , for example , the Earth somehow doubled in size without gaining mass , gravity would be weaker on the surface . The inflation period happened * so * fast that the gravitational field did n't have time to \" catch up \" with the expansion . It 's sort of like a sonic boom : you 're moving through the air so fast that the sound waves get compressed together , and you end up with this loud boom since they 're all mooshed . Those are the gravitational waves that BICEP2 detected . They 're the \" shockwave \" from the inflation period . The only way they 'd show up is if the inflation happened , so physicists are very happy with themselves .
The BICEP2 team made a spectacular announcement because they discovered evidence of cosmic inflation, which is a theory about how the universe grew very quickly in the moments after the Big Bang. This discovery is considered spectacular because it helps to explain many mysteries about the universe, such as why it looks the same in all directions and why it is filled with radiation. The discovery could also lead to a Nobel Prize because it is a very important scientific discovery that advances our understanding of the universe.
reddit_eli5
