What is this new \" Common Core \" math ? I feel like I can work out logical problems , but I see no rhyme or reason behind how to do it , or why . Explain like I'm five.<>First , an important thing to remember is that the Common Core is a set of standards , meaning it is up to the teacher how to reach those standards , so if you find some of the problems odd , the blame is more on the teacher . Anyways , the purpose of common core as I understand it is to emphasize students not memorizing numbers , formulas , equations , etc . but to learn how to think critically and use basic knowledge in more complicated problems mirroring the real world . In geometry , you 'd be taught the various rules , such as what are complementary angles , and then you 'd need to be able to figure out more complicated real world problems . TL;DR If I have it right , the purpose of the CC standards is to make students better critical thinkers using math . Being able to take basic math knowledge and figure out more complicated real world - like problems is the goal .<>\"Common Core\" is a set of standards for math and language arts education that have been adopted by many states in the United States. These standards are designed to help students develop critical thinking and problem solving skills, and to better prepare them for college and career success.\r\n\r\nOne of the goals of the Common Core math standards is to help students learn to think more deeply about math, and to understand the concepts and principles that underlie the calculations they perform. This means that, rather than simply memorizing formulas or rules, students are encouraged to understand why math works the way it does and how it can be used to solve real-world problems.\r\n\r\nFor example, rather than simply being taught how to carry out long division, students might be asked to explain why long division works and how it can be used to solve problems. This approach can help students develop a deeper understanding of math and build the skills they need to tackle more complex problems as they progress through school.<>reddit_eli5