How was Mongolia so big and significant back in the days , but now they are like nothing ? Back in the days of Khan , when they controlled like 1\/3 of the Earth or something ... and now , they are like nothing . What happened Mongolia ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Genghis Khan was able to unite multiple nomadic warrior tribes that had previously been constantly fighting . With this united army , he and his immensely skilled army ( who had pioneered the ability to shoot arrows on horseback ) conquered essentially all of Asia and into Europe . Unfortunately , after Genghis Khan , their charismatic leader , died , the empire crumbled . The Yuan Dynasty in China lasted for another 100 years and the Golden Horde in the Caucasus and Russia ruled for until the 1500s , but eventually , all the Mongols ' conquests were utterly destroyed , and they returned to their simple , peaceful , and semi - nomadic lifestyle in Mongolia , which is not very conducive to becoming rich and powerful . Today Mongolia is the least densely - populated nation on Earth .<>Mongolia has a long and rich history, and at various times in its past, it has been a significant power on the world stage. For example, during the 13th and 14th centuries, the Mongol Empire, which was founded by Genghis Khan, was one of the largest and most powerful empires in the world. At its peak, the Mongol Empire covered a vast territory that included much of Asia and parts of Europe. However, over time, the Mongol Empire began to decline, and it eventually broke apart into smaller states. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, Mongolia was conquered by the Qing Dynasty of China and later by the Soviet Union. It was not until the 1990s, when Mongolia underwent a transition to democracy and a market economy, that it regained its independence as a sovereign nation. Since then, Mongolia has faced a number of challenges, including a transition to a new economic and political system, limited natural resources, and a small and relatively isolated population. Despite these challenges, Mongolia has made progress in recent years and is working to develop its economy and improve the standard of living for its people.<>reddit_eli5