What is the most common and profitable investment for a good retirement in Australia?<>I don't look to Super or Pension, I am working on self funding. My method is work in Sydney and buy a house in Sydney (I bought 6 years ago). Let my property rise on this stupidly insane Sydney growth (my place has risen by 76% in the last 6 years and thats in a \"bad\" economic climate). Each time the equity hits a certain point get an investment property on an interest only home loan and rent it out. Build this portfolio up as much and as quickly as you can. Repeat over and over until I decide to retire. Sell up investment properties and buy NOT IN SYDNEY where it is much cheaper and move there, keep the main house I always lived in as by this time I will own it outright, rent it out for an income that will more than sustain me in my retirement. Although there is also merit in the idea of sell the one you lived in and use the money to pay of one of the investments, this way you avoid capital gains tax. This idea came to me last night :)<>There is no one \"best\" investment that is suitable for everyone. The most appropriate investment for your retirement will depend on your individual financial situation, risk tolerance, and investment goals. Some common investments that are often included in retirement portfolios include:Superannuation: Superannuation is a government-mandated retirement savings program in Australia. Contributions to a superannuation fund are made by both the employer and employee, and the funds are invested on behalf of the employee.Shares: Shares, or stocks, represent ownership in a company and can provide potential for capital growth. However, the value of shares can also go down, so they carry a higher level of risk compared to some other investments.Fixed interest: Fixed interest investments, such as bonds and term deposits, offer a fixed rate of return over a set period of time. These investments tend to be less risky than shares, but may also provide lower returns.Property: Investing in property can provide the potential for capital growth and rental income. However, investing in property also involves significant upfront costs and ongoing expenses, such as maintenance and insurance.It's important to diversify your investment portfolio and consider the potential risks and rewards of different types of investments. It's also a good idea to seek financial advice from a professional before making any investment decisions.<>finance