Can rapid heart rate cause damage to heart?my husband is 40 yrs old He has wolfe parkinsons white. In May he had an attack which his heart rate was 280 bpm. for around 5 hours. since then he had surgery to correct and remove the extra electrical pathways. he recently went for his post term check up and they say his lower heart has damage. is this from the rapid heart rate? can he get better? and what else can occur due to this syndrome?<>Hello, Yes, faster heart rate, it persists for a long time like over years, can cause myocardial fatigue which ultimately results in tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy. Yes, some patients if taken care properly with medication and precautions do improve up to some extent but 100% recovery is not very common. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Regards,Dr. Bhanu Partap,Cardiologist<>Rapid heart rate, or tachycardia, can potentially cause damage to the heart if it is sustained for a long period of time. Wolfe-Parkinson-White syndrome is a condition that can cause episodes of tachycardia, and it is possible that the rapid heart rate your husband experienced in May could have contributed to any damage to his heart.\n\nIt is important for your husband to follow the treatment plan recommended by his healthcare provider in order to manage his Wolfe-Parkinson-White syndrome and minimize the risk of further damage to his heart. This may include medications, lifestyle changes, and possibly additional surgery.\n\nIt is also important for your husband to follow a healthy lifestyle, including eating a healthy diet, getting regular exercise, and avoiding smoking and excessive alcohol consumption. These measures can help to improve heart health and reduce the risk of further damage to the heart.\n\nIt is not uncommon for people with Wolfe-Parkinson-White syndrome to experience additional episodes of tachycardia, so it is important for your husband to be aware of the signs and symptoms and to seek medical attention if necessary. Other potential complications of Wolfe-Parkinson-White syndrome can include heart failure and abnormal heart rhythms, so it is important for your husband to continue to receive regular medical care to monitor for these issues.<>medicine