How can I know the minimum due credit card payment and date for an ANZ Visa card?<>You are in luck, I have an ANZ credit card as well. I have just checked my paper statement with online, and was able to find a matching online statement in less than a minute. You simply click on your credit card account from the list of accounts. Under Date Range it will have the Current incomplete statement period. You simply click on the down arrow and select the last complete date range ending sometime in late April (depending on your credit card cycle). You then press on View next to the drop down box. This should provide you with a list of purchases and payment\/credits for that period, followed by a line with your Credit Limit, Available Funds and Closing Balance. The line below that then shows your Due Date, and Overdue\/Overlimit, the Minimum Payment and Amount Due Now If you are after paying only the minimum amount then you pay this amount by the due date (you will be charged interest if you only pay this amount). If, on the otherhand, you wish to avoid paying any interest then you need to pay the full Closing Balance before the due date. You should also be able to get electronic statements sent to your email address.<>To find out the minimum due credit card payment and due date for your ANZ Visa card, you can do the following:Check your most recent credit card statement: Your minimum due payment and due date should be listed on your credit card statement. You can find this information either online through your credit card issuer's website or app, or by looking at a physical copy of your statement.Contact your credit card issuer: If you are unable to find the information on your credit card statement, you can contact ANZ directly to inquire about your minimum due payment and due date. You can do this by calling the customer service number on the back of your credit card, or by logging into your account online and sending a secure message through the website or app.It's important to pay at least the minimum due payment by the due date to avoid late fees and to maintain a good credit score. If you are unable to make the minimum due payment, it's a good idea to contact your credit card issuer as soon as possible to discuss your options. They may be able to work with you to come up with a payment plan or to waive any late fees.","To find out the minimum due payment and due date for your ANZ Visa credit card, you can follow these steps:Go to the ANZ website and log in to your account.Once you are logged in, click on the \"Cards\" tab on the top menu.Click on the name of the credit card for which you want to find the minimum due payment and due date.You will see a summary of your credit card account, including the current balance, minimum due payment, and due date.If you need more information about your credit card account, you can click on the \"View account details\" link to see a detailed breakdown of your account activity, including any transactions, payments, and fees.It's important to pay at least the minimum due payment by the due date to avoid late fees and to maintain a good credit score. If you have any questions about your credit card account or need help making a payment, you can contact ANZ customer service for assistance.<>finance