the reasons why Al Queda attacked us on 9\/11 . And please no conspiracy theories . Explain like I'm five.<>Two big reasons : US support of Israel and the Gulf War . In the metaphorical neighborhood block of the Mid - East , Israel is the kid no one likes , but has a big brother that always standing by to back him up in a fight . That big brother is the United States . All the other kids in the playground end up seeing both as bullies . Since America gets to play the role of the \" Big Bad , \" the Gulf War was seen not as the US breaking up a fight between a smaller kid ( Kuwait ) and a bigger kid ( Iraq ) , but just as more bullying . It did n't help that everybody knew that Kuwait was a spoiled rich kid who would let the US borrow his 3DS . Worse they US stopped the fight by cutting through Saudi Arabia 's house to get to the fight , and everyone knows that Saudi Arabia is holy ground . That 's just cheating . Worse yet , the US even hung around in Saudi Arabia 's house after the fight was over , occasionally jumping out to give Iraq a smack if he got out of line . So , now all the disgruntled kids have proof that the US not only supports the weird kid no one likes , but is also a bully who will break the rules to get his way .<>Al-Qaeda is a terrorist organization that was founded in the late 1980s by Osama bin Laden and other radical Islamists. On September 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda carried out a series of coordinated attacks on the United States. The attacks targeted the World Trade Center in New York City and the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., and resulted in the deaths of nearly 3,000 people. There are a number of reasons why Al-Qaeda may have chosen to attack the United States on September 11, 2001. One reason is that the group believed that the United States was an enemy of Islam and was actively supporting governments in the Middle East that were oppressive to Muslims. Al-Qaeda also saw the United States as a symbol of Western power and influence, and believed that by attacking the United States, it could strike a blow against Western influence and influence around the world. Additionally, Al-Qaeda was opposed to the presence of U.S. military forces in the Middle East, and may have seen the attacks as a way to drive the United States out of the region.<>reddit_eli5