What is the the ending to the TV show LOST ? I do not get the ending at all . Explain like I'm five.
* The island is a barrier holding back chaos and badness from the rest of the world . Think about it this way : the island is a bottle holding evil inside of it , and there is a cork preventing the evil from coming out . * It 's protected by Jacob . * Jacob 's brother , the \" Man in Black \" , was killed by Jacob inside the \" heart \" of the island and as a result he was turned into the smoke monster ( who can also appear as dead people ) . He wants nothing more than to leave the island , but for that to happen the island has to become \" uncorked \" and let the evil spill out . * Because of magic , Jacob and the Smoke Monster can not harm each other and the Smoke Monster can not uncork the island himself . Therefore , the * entire show * is effectively a chess match between Jacob , who wants to pick a successor to protect the island ( that 's why he brought everybody there ) and the Man in Black , who wants to kill Jacob and unleash evil on the world . * In the last season the Man in Black successfully manipulates Ben into killing Jacob , but Jacob passes the protectorship onto Jack . Jack and the Man in Black both \" uncork \" the island , which makes the Man in Black mortal . Before he can leave the island the Man in Black gets killed and Jack sacrifices himself to re - cork the island . * In the last season , the confusing flash - sideways * is purgatory * , serving as an epilogue showing all of the characters reuniting before they enter heaven . [ If you still find this confusing , watch this . ] ( URL_0 )
In the final episode of \"Lost,\" the characters who have been stranded on a mysterious island for the duration of the show finally find a way to leave and return home. However, the ending of the show is meant to be more metaphorical than literal. The island represents a sort of purgatory, where the characters were given the opportunity to work through their personal issues and come to terms with their past mistakes. Throughout the show, the characters often died and were brought back to life on the island, symbolizing their spiritual journey and their efforts to better themselves. In the end, the characters realize that the island was just a way station on their journey through life, and they are able to move on and find peace. The characters who were still alive on the island at the end of the show are seen walking through a bright, white light, which is meant to represent the afterlife or a higher plane of existence. Overall, the ending of \"Lost\" is meant to suggest that the characters have found redemption and have moved on to a better place, both literally and spiritually.
reddit_eli5
