The stock market crash of the 1930s . Bonus points for explaining the reasoning of the implementation of the federal Reserve as I 've been told that it was put in place to prevent the stock market from crashing again . Explain like I'm five.<>Well , everyone believed that they could make huge amounts of money from the stock market , so they borrowed thousands of dollars from banks , using this money to invest in the stock market . However , they had to be able to make enough from the stock market to pay off the interest on their debt . For one reason or another , the value of stocks began to drop , and since people had borrowed so much from the banks to invest in the stock market that they tried to sell all of their stocks - they did n't want to end up losing money . However , since everyone wanted to sell their stock , and no one wanted to buy , the price of the stocks continually went down , as people tried to undercut each others ' prices , hoping someone would buy their stocks . Eventually , people could n't pay their debts , so those with money in banks panicked as well and ran to the banks to withdrawal their money from the bank . However the banks did not anticipate this , and did not have enough money on hand to give everyone all the money in their bank accounts . Many banks were forced to close , and those with money in those banks lost everything they had . EDIT : The Federal Reserve was implemented to prevent bank panics as stated above . Basically , if a bank does n't have enough money on hand for a withdrawal they take a loan from the government , and are able to give people their money back , even if the bank is forced to close .<>The stock market crash of the 1930s was a period of great economic downturn and hardship for many people around the world. During this time, the stock market, which is a place where people can buy and sell shares of ownership in companies, fell dramatically in value. This caused many people to lose a lot of money, as the value of their investments plummeted. The federal reserve is a system of banks and other financial institutions that work together to help manage the country's money supply and stabilize the economy. One of the main reasons the federal reserve was put in place was to help prevent financial crises like the stock market crash of the 1930s from happening again. The federal reserve can use various tools, such as setting interest rates and regulating the amount of money in circulation, to try to keep the economy stable and prevent financial crises. So, in simple terms, the federal reserve was created to help prevent big financial problems like the stock market crash of the 1930s from happening again.<>reddit_eli5