Please explain what is \"White-box testing\"<>White-box testing (also known as clear box testing, glass box testing, transparent box testing, and structural testing) is a method of software testing that tests internal structures or workings of an application, as opposed to its functionality (i.e. black-box testing). In white-box testing, an internal perspective of the system is used to design test cases. The tester chooses inputs to exercise paths through the code and determine the expected outputs. This is analogous to testing nodes in a circuit, e.g. in-circuit testing (ICT).\nWhite-box testing can be applied at the unit, integration and system levels of the software testing process. Although traditional testers tended to think of white-box testing as being done at the unit level, it is used for integration and system testing more frequently today. It can test paths within a unit, paths between units during integration, and between subsystems during a system–level test. Though this method of test design can uncover many errors or problems, it has the potential to miss unimplemented parts of the specification or missing requirements. Where white-box testing is design-driven, that is, driven exclusively by agreed specifications of how each component of software is required to behave (as in DO-178C and ISO 26262 processes), white-box test techniques can accomplish assessment for unimplemented or missing requirements.\nWhite-box test design techniques include the following code coverage criteria:<>White-box testing is a method of testing software in which the tester has complete knowledge of the internal workings and structure of the system being tested. It is often contrasted with black-box testing, in which the tester has no knowledge of the internal structure of the system and only has access to the input and output of the system.\n\n\n\nWhite-box testing is typically used to test specific parts of the software or to verify that certain internal processes are working correctly. It is often used in combination with black-box testing to provide a comprehensive testing strategy.\n\n\n\nTo perform white-box testing, the tester needs to have a detailed understanding of the code being tested and the algorithms and processes it uses. The tester will create test cases that exercise different parts of the code and verify that the output is correct. This can include testing specific paths through the code, testing edge cases, and testing error handling.\n\n\n\nSome of the benefits of white-box testing include the ability to thoroughly test the internal processes of the software, the ability to find hidden or hard-to-detect defects, and the ability to test the code at a very low level. However, it can be time-consuming and may require specialized knowledge or tools.<>wiki_csai