How did mankind decide which way up the earth is on maps ? In theory , the universe is infinite ( or ever expanding ) . What made us choose what way is up and how earth is portrayed on a map ? Who decided North was up ? Please explain like I'm five.<>North - up became the universal standard during the Renaissance and the European Age of Exploration ( 16th century ) . Before then , there were a number of conventions . Arab and Egyptian maps were generally South - up . European maps pointed toward the Holy Land , and were thus East - up ( this was before magnetic compasses became common ) . The verb * to orient * , to get one 's bearings , literally means \" to East \" , i.e. \" to find East \/ find which way is up \" . With the magnetic compass and the need for accurate navigational charts for seagoing ships , East - up had to be abandoned . European mapmakers had to choose either North - up or South - up . They chose North - up . We can make an educated guess as to a practical reason why : because North points to the North Star , an incredibly convenient navigational aid . But the only reason we 're actually sure about is much less practical : they did it because Ptolemy did it . The Renaissance was a time when it was super fashionable to be like the ancient Greeks . Classical literature and Classical scientific knowledge was being rediscovered , and everyone wanted to imitate it . Ptolemy was a Greco - Egyptian mathematician from the 2nd Century . He had made a number of maps , and he put North up . We do n't know why , but he did . The Renaissance mapmakers ( including Gerardus Mercator , of the famous Mercator map projection ) idolized him , so they followed his lead . Thus European maps became North - up , and European influence throughout the following centuries meant that everyone else eventually moved to North - up as well .<>Mankind has been creating maps for thousands of years, and the way we portray the Earth on a map has changed over time. In the past, people created maps based on their own observations and experiences. For example, early maps often showed the direction that people believed the sun rose in the morning (usually the east) at the top of the map.As people learned more about the Earth and its place in the universe, they began to create more accurate maps. In the 16th century, a man named Gerardus Mercator developed a way of making maps that showed the Earth's surface in a way that was more accurate and easier to use. Mercator's maps showed the north at the top and the south at the bottom, and this became the standard way of making maps.The reason we choose to show the north at the top of maps is because the Earth's axis is tilted in a way that causes the North Pole to be closer to the sun in the summer and farther away in the winter. This means that the north is considered \"up\" on a map because it is closer to the sun and therefore considered to be more important.I hope this helps to explain how we decided which way is up on maps! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5