Why do people like Ron Paul ? What does he want to do if he becomes president ? First of all i m from Europe and know nothing about US politics but what i 've read is that people like Ron Paul , why ? Explain like I'm five.<>Ron Paul is a social and economic libertarian . It can be confusing because the the terms liberal , conservative , and libertarian are slightly different in the US than they are in Europe . In the US , liberals are on the left of the political spectrum and generally believe in things like unions , progressive taxation , social equality , financial regulation , etc . Liberals are more often found in the Democratic Party . Conservatives are on the right of the political spectrum and generally believe in less progressive taxes , less financial regulation , religious values , etc . Conservative are more often found in the Republican Party . Libertarians in the US are sort of a mix in that they fall on the extreme right economically and on the far left socially . Ron Paul is further unique in that he falls on the far right economically , but socially spans the entire political spectrum . So Paul believes in the complete deregulation of business and financial markets , the dissolution of our national bank , returning our currency to be tied to gold , removing a bunch of government institutions and generally removing as much power from our federal government as possible . Socially he believes that drugs should be legal , but he also thinks that abortion should be illegal , so he sort of spans the spectrum . So people generally like him because they ideologically agree with a number of his beliefs and above all else think the federal government exists to take rights away from people . People do n't like him because they think his views are extreme , impractical , irrational , and ideologically think that government exists to protect the rights of people .<>Ron Paul is a former member of the US Congress and a physician. He is known for his libertarian views, which means that he believes in limited government and more personal freedom. He has a strong following among people who agree with these ideas and who believe that the government should have less control over people's lives. Some of the things that Ron Paul has advocated for include lower taxes, fewer regulations, and more individual freedom. If he were to become president, it is likely that he would try to implement these ideas and reduce the size and scope of the federal government. However, it is important to note that Ron Paul's views are not necessarily representative of the entire Republican Party or the entire US political system.<>reddit_eli5