How did planets form to have their own gravitational pull ? Why is the core so hot ? Just thinking about planet formation . How do these massive things even stick together ? How did a gravitational pull in a single location built mass that became a planet ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Ok first question : Everything has a gravitational pull . Not just planets . You have a gravitational pull and so does your cat and your socks . Everything with mass is constantly pulling on everything else with Mass no matter how far they are . If they are n't moving fast enough to counteract the force pulling them together then they eventually collide and form a larger object with a greater pull . This continues to happen until you get planets . In some cases the planets get so massive that their gravitational pull is stronger than the forces keeping atoms far apart and then the sun will collapse into a black hole . Second question : > There are three main sources of heat in the deep earth : ( 1 ) heat from when the planet formed and accreted , which has not yet been lost ; ( 2 ) frictional heating , caused by denser core material sinking to the center of the planet ; and ( 3 ) heat from the decay of radioactive elements .<>Sure! So, planets form from the leftover material that was left over after the sun formed. This material was made up of gas, dust, and small rocks. When the sun formed, it was so hot that it blew most of the gas away, but some of the dust and small rocks stuck together because of their own gravitational pull. \nAs more and more of these small pieces stuck together, they formed bigger and bigger clumps. Eventually, these clumps became big enough to be called planets. The bigger the planet, the stronger its gravitational pull, which is why it can hold onto more material and grow even bigger. \nThe core of a planet is hot because it is made up of very heavy elements, such as iron and nickel, which are denser and heavier than the other materials that make up the planet. When the planet was forming, these heavy elements sank to the center of the planet and formed the core. The heat in the core comes from the pressure of all of the material above it, as well as the heat that was generated when the planet was forming. \nI hope that helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5