What happens when you transfer blood that does n't match a person in that specific blood type ? Did they just have to go around testing and killing people with the wrong blood type till they got it ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Some quick background : blood types overlap , for instance someone who has AB positive blood can have blood transfusions of any type without reaction . Whereas someone who has A positive can receive all but B positive or B negative . In a case where someone gets a transfusion of the wrong type ( This pretty much does n't happen ) then that blood is seen as an \" intruder \" and the body starts to attack it . As the antibodies bind to the red blood cells they will start to group together which can create blood clots , then the antibodies destroy the cells . However as I said this does n't happen as you always check blood types before doing an transfusion . Only time you would n't check is if its an emergency where you would use O negative since its a universal donor .<>When a person receives a blood transfusion, it is very important that the blood type of the donor and the recipient are compatible. If a person receives a blood transfusion with incompatible blood, it can cause serious problems and can even be life-threatening. \nThere are different blood types, and each person has one of these types: A, B, AB, or O. In addition to these blood types, there is also a factor called the Rh factor, which can be positive or negative. This means that there are eight possible blood types: A+, A-, B+, B-, AB+, AB-, O+, and O-. \nWhen a person receives a blood transfusion, their immune system may recognize the donated blood as foreign and attack it. This can cause a reaction called transfusion reaction, which can lead to serious complications such as anemia, kidney damage, and even death. \nTo avoid transfusion reactions, doctors and hospitals carefully match the blood type of the donor and recipient before a transfusion is given. They do this by testing the blood of both the donor and recipient to determine their blood type and Rh factor. This way, they can make sure that the donated blood is compatible with the recipient's blood, and that the transfusion will be safe. \nIn the past, it was common for doctors to try different blood types on patients to see which one worked best. However, this practice was very risky and led to many deaths. Today, doctors and hospitals use careful blood typing and testing to ensure that transfusions are as safe as possible.<>reddit_eli5