I am blind(from birth ) . Describe colors to me . Title explains it all . I am just curious as to how you would explain to a blind person from birth , color . EDIT : I am not really blind . Explain like I'm five.<>Well , you can hear , so I can compare it to that . Hearing has loudness , pitch , and timbre . Sight has brightness , saturation , and hue . Sounds can be either loud or soft , based on how much sound you 're hearing . Sounds have high pitch and low pitch , based on the frequency of the vibration . Also , there 's ' timbre ' which is pretty much unexplained as of now . Sounds like ' aaah ' ' eeehhh ' and ' ohhhh ' have different sounds even at the same pitch . Images have brightness , based on how much light you 're seeing . Pretty much analogous to loudness , we ca n't see anything in zero brightness and really high brightness can harm our eyes . Saturation is like pitch , it 's the level of color we see in an image . And , just like pitch , we ca n't really see or discern colors at low saturation while high saturation ( maximum color ) can be annoying to us at high brightness . Hue is the actual color we see . This is like ' timbre ' , the hardest one to define . But there 's clearly a spectrum , and we can tell the major group it falls under . Try to say ' a ' ' e ' ' i ' ' o ' ' u ' while blending letters together . At any point , you can stop and say which letter you were closest to and which letters you were between .<>Colors are a way that we describe different shades and hues that we see in the world around us. For example, red is a color that is often associated with warmth and love. It is a bright, bold color that is sometimes described as being vibrant or energizing. Blue is a color that is often associated with calmness and tranquility. It is a cool, soothing color that is sometimes described as being peaceful or serene. Yellow is a color that is often associated with happiness and sunshine. It is a bright, cheerful color that is sometimes described as being warm and inviting. Green is a color that is often associated with nature and growth. It is a refreshing, natural color that is sometimes described as being cool and soothing.\r\n\r\nThere are many other colors as well, such as purple, orange, pink, and brown. Each color has its own unique qualities and characteristics, and we often use them to help express ourselves and communicate with others. Some people might choose to wear certain colors because they like the way they look, while others might use different colors to convey different emotions or messages.<>reddit_eli5