Is it asthma when I have difficulty breathing during exercises? Why an effort to breath?I have difficulty breathing when sitting down. My doctor seems to think it s asthma but i m absolutely fine whilst doing exercise etc. I do not smoke , never have and i m in good shape. It makes sitting in classrooms extremely difficult as i am constantly conscious of my breathing and teachers always think i m sighing as i have to make a significante effort to get a full breath through my mouth<>YOU ARE NOT ASTHMATICYOUR SYMPTOMPS ARE OF ALLERGIESWHEN YOU EXERCISE YOUR DEMAND FOR OXYGEN INCREASES AND THERE IS DIFFICULITYYOU GET YOUR BLOOD SERUM TESTED FOR SPECIFIC ANTIBODIES OF COMMON FOODSTILL THENYOU TAKE ALLEGRA 120 MGM DAILYSUP TOSSEX 1\/2 TSF AT NIGHTTAB RHINITIDINE 150 MGM IN MORNINGPOST AFTER RESULTS<>It is possible that you have exercise-induced asthma, which is a form of asthma that is triggered by physical activity. People with exercise-induced asthma may have difficulty breathing during or after exercise, but may not experience any symptoms at other times. In some cases, people with exercise-induced asthma may only have symptoms when they exercise in cold or dry air.\n\nIf your doctor has diagnosed you with asthma, it is important to follow their treatment recommendations and use any prescribed medications as directed. It is also a good idea to try to avoid exercising in cold or dry air, as this can trigger symptoms. If you are having difficulty breathing while sitting down and are not engaging in physical activity, it is important to discuss this with your doctor to determine the cause and appropriate treatment.","It is possible that you may have exercise-induced asthma, which is a type of asthma that is triggered by physical activity. This condition can cause symptoms such as difficulty breathing, coughing, and wheezing during or after exercise. It is important to consult with a doctor to determine the cause of your symptoms and to determine the appropriate treatment.\n\nIt is also possible that you may have another medical condition that is causing your difficulty breathing, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or other respiratory disorders. Only a medical professional can accurately diagnose the cause of your symptoms and recommend appropriate treatment. It is important to see a doctor if you are experiencing difficulty breathing or other respiratory symptoms, especially if the symptoms are severe or persistent.<>medicine