What does lump in the liver in CT scan indicate?Was at the gastroenterologist yesterday and by chance a CT scan showed a lump in my liver. I was not expecting this, as that was not what I was being treated for. It is 1\/2 AND HE SAID TO WAIT 3 MONTHS AND WE WOULD DO ANOTHER SCAN to see if it grows. Should I be worried and see another doctor?<>Hi, dearI have gone through your question. I can understand your concern.Accidental lump in the liver is common. You may some benign cyst or hemangioma. Wait for a month. GO for ultrasound and if size is increasing then you should go for ultrasound guided liver biopsy to search the cause of lump. Then you should take treatment accordingly.Hope I have answered your question, if you have any doubts then contact me at bit.ly\/Drsanghvihardik, I will be happy to answer you.Thanks for using health care magic.Wish you a very good health.<>It is not uncommon for small lumps or nodules to be found in the liver during a CT scan. These can be benign (non-cancerous) or malignant (cancerous). In some cases, the cause of the lump can be determined based on the appearance of the lump on the CT scan and other factors such as the patient's age and medical history. However, in other cases, it may be necessary to perform additional testing, such as a biopsy, to determine the cause of the lump.\n\nIt is understandable that finding a lump in your liver during a CT scan can be concerning. However, it is important to keep in mind that not all lumps in the liver are cancerous. It is also important to note that many benign liver lumps do not require treatment.\n\nIt is generally recommended to follow your doctor's recommendation to wait and see if the lump grows over the next three months. If the lump does not grow or changes in appearance, it may not be necessary to pursue additional testing. However, if the lump does grow or changes in appearance, or if you have other concerns, it is important to discuss these with your doctor and consider seeking a second opinion from another specialist if necessary.<>medicine