Computer processors I know it 's ones and zeros , but how does it even work ? How can they go through literally billions of ones and zeros a second ? Why do they generate so much heat ? Please explain like I'm five.<>To expand a little , since people talk a lot about computers working in binary , but not as much on how it all works together . A CPU has an instruction set , which is basically an extremely basic set of commands that the CPU understands directly . Without going into the details , they can be summed up as : * Data \/ memory manipulation - Read \/ write between memory and registers ( Registers are basically memory in the CPU ) * Arithmetic , Logic and Compare - The four basic math operations , logic operations , and comparing two values * Control flow - Branching ( if then ) There 's more to it than the above , and I 'm sure there 's many specialized instructions , but those are the basics of how a CPU does what it needs to do . Using those things mentioned , with enough instructions , you can arrive at the things modern computers are capable of doing . To give a very basic example of how this might work , let 's say I want to test if 3 + 4 < 5 . Here 's a simplified version of what it might look like for the CPU : * Read 3 from memory and load it into CPU register 1 ( R1 ) * Read 4 from memory and load it into R2 * Add R1 and R2 together and put it in R3 * Read 5 from memory and put it in R4 * Check if R3 is less than R4 As you can see , even the most \" simple \" operations ( or things we perceive as simple ) will take a whole bunch of instructions . It all comes down to breaking down complex tasks into a high level language , which itself is then broken down into these extremely basic instructions . It 's quite mind blowing when you consider how extremely complex tasks programs are capable of are broken down to billions of extremely basic instructions ( of which the computer can perform millions per second ) .<>Computers use processors to perform tasks and solve problems. A processor is a small chip that sits inside your computer and helps it to do things like run software and access the internet. Inside the processor, there are tiny parts called transistors. Transistors are like tiny switches that can turn on or off very quickly. They can be used to store information as well as perform calculations. When a transistor is on, it represents a \"1\" in binary code. When it is off, it represents a \"0\". Binary code is a way of representing information using only ones and zeros. Processors can perform billions of calculations every second because they have many transistors that can all switch on and off very quickly. They are also designed to work efficiently, so they use as little energy as possible while still being able to perform a lot of calculations. Processors generate heat because they use a lot of energy. When energy is used, it is turned into heat as a byproduct. The heat is then dissipated by a cooling system, such as a fan or heatsink, to keep the processor from overheating.<>reddit_eli5