Buying a car - advice needed<>If it costs more to fix the car than the car is worth, then those repairs are not worth it.  Hit craigslist and look for another junker that runs, but is in your cash price range.  Pay to get it looked at by a mechanic as a condition of sale.  Use consumer reports to try and find a good model. Somebody in your position does not need a $15K car.  You need a series of $2K or $4K cars that you will replace more often, but pay cash for.  Car buying, especially from a dealer financed, place isn't how I would recommend building your credit back up. EDIT in response to your updates: Build your credit the smart way, by not paying interest charges.  Use your lower limit card, and annually apply for more credit, which you use and pay off each and every month.  Borrowing is not going to help you.  Just because you can afford to make payments, doesn't automatically make payments a wise decision.  You have to examine the value of the loan, not what the payments are.  Shop for a good price, shop for a good rate, then purchase.  The amount you can pay every month should only be a factor than can kill the deal, not allow it. Pay cash for your vehicle until you can qualify for a low cost loan from a credit union or a bank.  It is a waste of money and time to pay a penalty interest rate because you want to build your credit.  Time is what will heal your credit score. If you really must borrow for the purchase, you must secure a loan prior to shopping for a car.  Visit a few credit unions and get pre-qualified.  Once you have a pre-approved loan in place, you can let the deal try and beat your loan for a better deal.  Don't make the mistake of letting the dealer do all the financing first.<>Buying a car is a major decision and it's important to do your research and consider all of your options before making a purchase. Here are a few tips to help you make an informed decision:Determine your budget: It's important to know how much you can afford to spend on a car so you don't end up overspending or taking on too much debt. Consider all of your other financial obligations and make sure you have enough money left over for things like insurance, maintenance, and fuel.Decide on the type of car you want: Do you need a small, fuel-efficient car for commuting, or a larger vehicle with more space for a growing family? Think about your needs and wants when choosing a car.Research different models: Look at reviews and ratings for different car models to get an idea of their performance, reliability, and safety. You can also check out consumer reports and compare the features and prices of different models.Test drive the car: It's important to test drive a car before you buy it to get a feel for how it handles and make sure it meets your needs.Consider financing options: If you don't have the cash to pay for a car outright, you'll need to consider financing options. Look at car loans from banks, credit unions, and car dealerships to find the best rate.Negotiate the price: Don't be afraid to negotiate the price of the car with the seller. They may be willing to come down on the price or throw in additional features or services.Get a pre-purchase inspection: If you're buying a used car, it's a good idea to have a mechanic inspect it before you buy it to make sure there are no hidden problems.I hope these tips are helpful as you consider buying a car. If you have any other questions, feel free to ask!<>finance