Computer Viruses and their effects Why do people make them ? What benefits do they get , if any ? How do they work ? Explain like I'm five.<>Many answers to each of these questions Why do people make them ? - fun - learn programing - profit - cause inconvenience \\ damage to the operating system - laughs - to be \" cool \" What benefits do they get , if any ? - fun - profit ( governments do develop virus 's but more commonly they also have a trojan component ) - programming skill - learn something new - feel cool - stolen passwords - stolen credit card numbers \\ personal data - there has also been virus 's made that fix your computer How do they work ? - Most virus 's today try and replicate as much as possible using any way they can to get from one computer to the next - infected JPEG\\exe files are common - a famous example : URL_1 using a file with the name of good looking people to click on it - they can either exploit a failure in software design that alows them to spread or trick users . - another good example is when people download a key generator for a popular piece of software , quite often a person will join a virus to the generator and re upload it to the internet for victim 's to download . ----- What Is a Virus ? A computer virus attaches itself to a program or file enabling it to spread from one computer to another , leaving infections as it travels . Like a human virus , a computer virus can range in severity : some may cause only mildly annoying effects while others can damage your hardware , software or files . Almost all viruses are attached to an executable file , which means the virus may exist on your computer but it actually can not infect your computer unless you run or open the malicious program . It is important to note that a virus can not be spread without a human action , ( such as running an infected program ) to keep it going . Because a virus is spread by human action people will unknowingly continue the spread of a computer virus by sharing infecting files or sending emails with viruses as attachments in the email . What Is a Worm ? Sponsored Is your network ready for the cloud ? Find out : read “ Five Reasons Classic Ethernet Switches Wo n't Support the Cloud ” and learn how to examine your network ’s strength and eliminate any weak points . A worm is similar to a virus by design and is considered to be a sub - class of a virus . Worms spread from computer to computer , but unlike a virus , it has the capability to travel without any human action . A worm takes advantage of file or information transport features on your system , which is what allows it to travel unaided . The biggest danger with a worm is its capability to replicate itself on your system , so rather than your computer sending out a single worm , it could send out hundreds or thousands of copies of itself , creating a huge devastating effect . One example would be for a worm to send a copy of itself to everyone listed in your e - mail address book . Then , the worm replicates and sends itself out to everyone listed in each of the receiver 's address book , and the manifest continues on down the line . Due to the copying nature of a worm and its capability to travel across networks the end result in most cases is that the worm consumes too much system memory ( or network bandwidth ) , causing Web servers , network servers and individual computers to stop responding . In recent worm attacks such as the much - talked - about Blaster Worm , the worm has been designed to tunnel into your system and allow malicious users to control your computer remotely . What Is a Trojan horse ? A Trojan Horse is full of as much trickery as the mythological Trojan Horse it was named after . The Trojan Horse , at first glance will appear to be useful software but will actually do damage once installed or run on your computer . Those on the receiving end of a Trojan Horse are usually tricked into opening them because they appear to be receiving legitimate software or files from a legitimate source . When a Trojan is activated on your computer , the results can vary . Some Trojans are designed to be more annoying than malicious ( like changing your desktop , adding silly active desktop icons ) or they can cause serious damage by deleting files and destroying information on your system . Trojans are also known to create a backdoor on your computer that gives malicious users access to your system , possibly allowing confidential or personal information to be compromised . Unlike viruses and worms , Trojans do not reproduce by infecting other files nor do they self - replicate . URL_0<>Computer viruses are harmful pieces of software that are designed to spread from one computer to another and cause damage to systems and data. People make viruses for a variety of reasons, including to steal information, to disrupt computer systems, to cause damage to a specific person or organization, or for personal satisfaction or attention. Some people might make viruses as a form of protest or to draw attention to a particular issue.\n\nViruses work by attaching themselves to legitimate programs or files and then spreading to other computers when those programs or files are shared or opened. Once a virus infects a computer, it can perform a variety of harmful activities, such as deleting important files, stealing sensitive information, or sending spam emails to the user's contacts.\n\nIt is important to protect your computer from viruses by using antivirus software and being careful about what you download or open from the internet.<>reddit_eli5