WHY ca n't we travel at light speed ? Also what would ( or has ) happen(ed ) with any attempts . Please explain like I'm five.<>Due to the rules of the Universe ( as Einstein tried to explain with his theory of relativity ) , the faster you 're going , the harder it gets to go faster . Lightspeed is denoted with the constant \" c \" . If you 're going 0.5c , you 're going at half the speed of light . If you 're going 0.98c , it takes a lot of energy to go faster and reach 0.99c . It takes even more than that to get to 0.999c . And more than that to reach 0.9999c .... Eventually you 're going so fast that you need more energy than what exists in the whole universe to go any faster . This is why nothing can ever actually travel at 1.0c . [ We can get close , though . ] ( URL_0 ) The Large Hadron Collider and similar particle accelerators can accelerate tiny bits of matter ( like a handful of protons ) to speeds faster than 0.9999c . A particle accelerator is like one of those magnetic coil - guns from science fiction movies , except they 're ring - shaped . They accelerate particles up to those speeds going in two parallel tracks , going in opposite directions . Then they aim the particles at each other , put them on a middle track and watch the fireworks when they collide .<>It is not currently possible for humans or any known matter to travel at the speed of light because as an object increases in speed, its mass increases exponentially. This means that an object would need an infinite amount of energy to reach the speed of light.Additionally, the laws of physics as we understand them break down at the speed of light, so it is not clear what would happen if an object were able to travel at that speed.One way to think about it is to imagine a car trying to drive on a road. The faster the car goes, the harder it is for the car to turn or change direction. It becomes harder and harder to control the car the faster it goes. Similarly, as an object approaches the speed of light, it becomes harder and harder to control and predict what will happen to it.Scientists and engineers have made attempts to try to understand and develop technologies that would allow for faster-than-light travel, but so far, all of these attempts have been unsuccessful. It is not known if it will ever be possible for humans to travel at the speed of light or faster.<>reddit_eli5