Making money through CFD<>A CFD is like a bet. Bookies don't own horses or racetracks but you still pay them and they pay you if the horses win. If you buy a CFD the money goes to the firm you bought it from and if the stock price changes in your favour, they will pay you. However, if it goes against you they may ask you for more money than you originally invested to cover your losses. Constacts for difference are derivatives, i.e. you gain on the change in the price or delta of something rather than on its absolute value. Someone bets one way and is matched with someone (or perhaps more than one) betting the other way. Both parties are bound by the contract to pay or be payed on the outcome. One will win and the other will necessarily lose.  It's similar in concept to a spread bet, although spread bets often have a fixed timescale whereas CFDs do not and CFDs generally operate via the payment of a commission rather than via charges included in the spread. There's more information on both CFDs and spread betting here If somone has a lot of CFDs that might affect the stock price if it's known about as others may buy\/sell real stock to either make the CFD pay or may it not pay depending on whether they think they can make money on it. Otherwise CFDs don't have much of an effect on stock prices.<>CFD stands for \"contract for difference,\" and it is a financial instrument that allows traders to speculate on the price movements of financial assets without actually owning the underlying assets. CFDs are traded on margin, which means that traders can use leverage to trade larger positions with a smaller amount of capital. This can increase potential profits, but also increases risk, as traders can lose more money than they have deposited if the market moves against them. To make money through CFD trading, traders need to correctly predict the direction in which the price of the underlying asset will move. If the price moves in the direction that the trader predicted, they can make a profit. However, if the price moves against the trader's prediction, they will incur a loss. CFD trading involves a high level of risk, and it is not suitable for all investors. It is important to fully understand the risks and to have a solid trading strategy before you start trading CFDs.<>finance