What is quantum tunneling and how does it work in stars ? I tried reading the [ Wikipedia Article ] ( URL_0 ) but I do n't get it . Explain like I'm five.
Things at subatomic scales are a lot fuzzier than things at everyday scales . You might visualize electrons and protons as little balls at definite positions in space moving in definite directions , but understand that this is only a conceptual model . They are n't actually like this . Electrons are n't balls . Neither are protons and neutrons . Instead , these particles are actually clouds.^1 Can you say that a cloud is in a certain place or that it 's moving in a certain way ? Clouds change shape in weird ways , right ? They might move with the wind , or they might spread out . The point ( no pun intended ) is that they do n't really have a definite position and velocity . Subatomic particles are the same way . In a sense . They 're also * not * like clouds in some ways . The most significant way in which they 're not like clouds is that an electron \" cloud \" ( i.e. one electron ) is really a cloud of where the electron could be * if * we were to observe it . Imagine that we have a fog machine inside an office cubicle . You turn the fog machine on for a few seconds , and the cubicle housing it fills with gas . If the dividers separating this cubicle from its neighbours are short , then quite a bit of the gas will seep into the cubicles next to this one . If the dividers are tall , less gas will get into the neighbouring cubicles . If the dividers are * really * tall , very little gas will escape into other cubicles . But some surely will . Now imagine that this gas is an electron cloud . Remember , this electron cloud represents all the possible locations an electron could be in if we were to observe it . Because there is a lot more gas in this cubicle ( the one with the fog machine ) , we are bound to observe the electron in this cubicle 9999 times out of 10000 . But there is still some amount of gas in the neighbouring cubicle , even with the seemingly impassable divider . Thus we will sometimes observe the electron in that cubicle , so it seems as if the electron that was in the cubicle with the fog machine has \" tunneled through \" the divider . I 'll let someone else take a stab at its significance in stars . 1 . This , too , is a bit of useful fiction . It 's a somewhat moot question to ask what they \" really \" are , as we ca n't exactly use our senses to directly observe them . A combination of analogies to everyday phenomena and mathematical descriptions of their behaviour is the most accurate way to understand them .
Quantum tunneling is a phenomenon that occurs when a particle is able to pass through a barrier that it would not be able to pass through if it were following the rules of classical physics. This happens because, according to the principles of quantum mechanics, particles can exhibit behaviors that are not possible according to classical physics, such as being in two places at once or having a certain probability of passing through a barrier.\n\nIn stars, quantum tunneling can occur when a particle, such as a proton, is trying to overcome a barrier of energy in order to fuse with another particle and release a large amount of energy. This process is what powers stars and allows them to shine. Without quantum tunneling, stars would not be able to produce the energy they need to shine, and they would eventually die out.\n\nSo, to explain it like you're five: quantum tunneling is like a particle being able to go through a wall that it couldn't normally go through, because of the weird rules of quantum mechanics. In stars, this helps them produce energy and keep shining.
reddit_eli5
