What causes us to have different tastes ? What makes us have different tastes ? For example , music , clothing , food etc . I 've always wondered it , is it something in the brain ? Is it a particular hormone ? Explain like I'm five.<>Perceptions . We all have the same senses ( healthy people , at least ) ; so we all ' see ' for example , but that 's as far as the similarities go . When you see the color red , you perceive a series of elements and factors with you eyes . This is the first part that can be different : how your senses work . There might be people more sensitive to light , people with disorders like daltonism , people that see blurs ... so how our senses differ from one anonter is the first step towards diversity in tastes . But the second step is even more important . Once your eyes sense the light and the color red , they send this information to you brain , where it is interpreted . Now , everyone 's brain is different . There 's no one like you . Every little bit of information , every cell comforming your brain , every thought you 've ever had changes and makes it absolutely unique . And all of these subtle or big changes affect how your brain interpretes every signal it receives from your senses . Going back to the ' seeing ' example , you might see an apple red , and if you ask me I 'll tell you that the apple is also red , but that 's just the name we have learnt for that color . We have no way to know that what we both call \" red \" is actually the same thing . It may be a different tone , a different hue ... and this happens with every single one of your senses . Try to think on how you would describe the color \" red \" to someone that 's NEVER seen it . You might say \" it 's warm \" or \" it 's like fire \" but these are NOT attributes of the color red . The actual \" red \" you want to describe ; the thing you experience when you see something red is called [ qualia ] ( URL_0 ) . And once you have this qualia , you conciously can now conciously analize it , and can have a different reaction to it depending on past experiences and ideas you might have . Someone that 's never been to war will have a different reaction to a gun than someone who 's been there , or someone that was recently stung by a bee will have a different reaction at the sight of one than someone who has not . So you see , when you experience something it 's split in 3 phases : * The Signal . * Your brain interpreting that signal . * How you perceive and compare that signal to experiences and ideas you and only you have . All these 3 phases can be incredibly different from one individual to another , and thus we all like different things . Because we perceive thom differently at many different levels .<>Our taste preferences are influenced by a variety of factors, including genetics, cultural and social influences, and individual experiences.\n\nGenetics play a role in determining certain aspects of our taste preferences, such as whether we are more sensitive to certain tastes or flavors. For example, some people are more sensitive to the bitterness of certain foods, while others may be more sensitive to sweet or sour tastes.\n\nCultural and social influences also play a role in shaping our taste preferences. The foods and flavors that are common in the culture we grew up in can influence what we like to eat. For example, if you grew up in a culture where spicy food is common, you may be more likely to enjoy spicy flavors than someone who grew up in a culture where spicy food is not as common.\n\nIndividual experiences can also shape our taste preferences. For example, if you had a positive experience eating a particular food, you may be more likely to enjoy that food in the future. Similarly, if you had a negative experience with a food, you may be less likely to enjoy that food in the future.\n\nOverall, our taste preferences are a combination of many different factors, including genetics, cultural and social influences, and individual experiences.<>reddit_eli5