The Indian caste system Is it another form of elitism ? Explain like I'm five.<>audiomatt has pretty much got it down , in terms of it being about as hard to explain as \" American society \" . Almost every profession is its own caste . That being said , there are four main \" varnas \" . One can ( usually ) only change varnas via reincarnation . These varnas , in order of rank , are : * priests * leaders and soldiers * merchants * workers Each varna is subdivided into jati ; the lower the varna is , the more subdivisions there are . The lowest jati of the lowest varna ( that is to say , the lowest types of workers ) were those who had to touch dead things . This was considered the most detestible work , and actually contributed to illiteracy in India for a long time ( before paper , people basically wrote on animal hides ) . To answer your question about elitism simply : yes . The priests held all of the religious secrets ( such as how to be reincarnated into a higher rank ) , the power to give or withhold approval for leaders , as well as the knowledge of writing and reading ( the religious thing was actually very important , because it could be complicated and required full time study to understand ) . There was some oppertunity for some to move up to the leadership class , but usually you had to be born into it . This had both positive and negative effects . Positively , India was able to retain its culture while usually remaining a bunch of independent tribes \/ nations \/ ect . Foriegn invaders could not convert Indians to their cultures . There are no \" evil dictators \" in Indian history ; in fact many of the \" leaders and soldiers \" class were not even allowed their own land for growing food . Every varna depended on the others to survive . However , a not - unified India prevented the Indians from forming any central government , something which brought to China a common language , army , currency , education , promotion based on doing a good job , and the resources to build things like the Great Wall . Francis Fukuyama , a great political thinker of our time , writes how interesting it is to watch China and India grow up together . One survived the test of time by becoming highly efficient and central power , the other by becoming like a series of interlocking puzzle pieces .<>The Indian caste system is a way of organizing people into social groups based on their job, social status, and sometimes even the way they look. It has been part of Indian culture for a long time and is still present today, although it is not officially recognized by the government.\n\nIn the caste system, people are born into a certain social group and are expected to stay in that group for their entire lives. Some groups are considered higher or lower than others, which can create a sense of elitism or superiority among people in the higher groups.\n\nElitism is when a group of people believe that they are better or more important than others because of their social status, wealth, or other characteristics. The Indian caste system can be seen as a form of elitism because it assigns value to people based on their social group, and some groups are considered more valuable than others.\n\nOverall, the caste system can be a very complicated and divisive issue, and it is important to treat everyone with respect and kindness, regardless of their social status or background.<>reddit_eli5