The difference between karate , kung fu , tae - kwon - do , and other martial arts . Please keep it simple Explain like I'm five.<>The two major types of martial arts are striking arts and grappling arts . Striking arts focus on punches and kicks and other arm and leg attacks , while grappling arts focus on wrestling , takedowns , and submissions . Some striking arts use mostly punches ( karate ) , others use mostly kicks ( tae kwon do ) , and some use a lot of elbows and knees ( Muay Thai ) . Kung fu is a Chinese style , karate is Japanese , tae kwon do is Korean , and Muay Thai is of course Thai . Grappling arts include wrestling , judo , and jiu - jitsu . Jiu - jitsu was developed in Japan , and both judo and Brazilian jiu - jitsu are modified from traditional Japanese jiu - jitsu . Now many martial arts schools teach more than one style , or incorporate elements of other styles into the main form that they teach . The UFC has shown that fighters who train in multiple styles are more effective than people who are masters of only one style . If you only knew tae kwon do , for example , you would be ineffective once your opponent got you on the ground , or got you in a hold . Different martial arts schools also focus on different reasons for learning the martial art . Some schools are big on competitive fighting and tournaments . Other schools focus on practical self - defense in real - life situations . And others focus more on the spiritual aspects of martial arts , with a lot of time devoted to forms and meditation rather than just fighting and techniques , and use martial arts to develop a connection to Chinese or Japanese or Korean , etc . culture .<>Sure! Karate, kung fu, and taekwondo are all types of martial arts, which are systems of fighting and self-defense that originated in different parts of the world.\n\nKarate is a martial art that originated in Japan. It involves striking techniques, such as punches and kicks, as well as blocking and dodging techniques. Karate practitioners typically wear a uniform called a gi and practice on a mat called a dojo.\n\nKung fu is a martial art that originated in China. It involves a wide range of techniques, including strikes, kicks, throws, and joint locks, as well as techniques for improving balance, flexibility, and strength. Kung fu practitioners may also use weapons, such as swords and staffs, in their training.\n\nTaekwondo is a martial art that originated in Korea. It is known for its fast, high kicks and jumping and spinning kicks. Taekwondo practitioners wear a uniform called a dobok and practice on a mat called a dojang.\n\nThere are many other types of martial arts as well, such as judo, jujitsu, and Muay Thai, each with its own unique techniques and training methods. In general, martial arts can help people improve their physical fitness, self-discipline, and confidence, and can also be a fun and enjoyable activity for people of all ages.<>reddit_eli5