company market capitalization to total (annual) stock market capitalization <>Market cap is speculative value, M = P * W, where W is stock (or other way of owning) percentage of ownership, P - price of percentage of ownership. This could include \"outside of exchange\" deals. Some funds could buy ownership percentage directly via partial ownership deal. That ownership is not stock, but fixed-type which has value too. Stock market cap is speculative value, M2 = Q * D, where D is free stocks available freely, Q - price of stock, in other words Quote number (not price of ownership). Many stock types do NOT provide actual percentage of ownership, being just another type of bond with non-fixed coupon and non-fixed price. Though such stocks do not add to company's capitalization after sold to markets, it adds to market capitalization at the moment of selling via initial price.<>Market capitalization, also known as market cap, is a measure of the size of a company. It is calculated by multiplying the company's stock price by the number of shares outstanding. For example, if a company has 1 million shares outstanding and its stock is trading at $50 per share, its market capitalization would be $50 million.Total stock market capitalization is the sum of the market capitalizations of all the companies listed on a stock exchange. It is an important measure of the overall size and health of the stock market.To calculate a company's market capitalization as a percentage of total stock market capitalization, you would divide the company's market capitalization by the total stock market capitalization and multiply the result by 100. This will give you the company's market capitalization as a percentage of the total.For example, if a company has a market capitalization of $50 million and the total stock market capitalization is $10 billion, the company's market capitalization would be 0.5% of the total.It's important to note that market capitalization is just one factor to consider when evaluating a company. It's a measure of size, but it doesn't necessarily reflect the company's financial health or future potential.<>finance