what was bernie madoff selling<>Bernard Lawrence \"Bernie\" Madoff (; born April 29, 1938) is an American former stockbroker , investment advisor , financier , and white collar criminal .<>Bernie Madoff was a financial advisor and investment manager who operated a Ponzi scheme, a fraudulent investment scheme in which he promised high returns to investors but actually used the money from new investors to pay the returns promised to earlier investors, rather than generating actual profits through legitimate business activities. Madoff's scheme eventually collapsed, and he was convicted of securities fraud and other charges in 2009. He is currently serving a prison sentence.","Bernie Madoff was a financial advisor and the former chairman of the NASDAQ stock exchange. He was convicted of running a Ponzi scheme, in which he promised investors high returns on their investments, but instead of investing their money, he used it to pay off earlier investors and for his own personal expenses. Madoff's scheme defrauded thousands of investors out of billions of dollars.","Bernie Madoff was a financier who operated a massive Ponzi scheme, defrauding thousands of investors of billions of dollars. In a Ponzi scheme, early investors are paid returns with the money of later investors, rather than with any actual profits earned. Madoff claimed to be running a successful investment firm, but in reality he was using the funds of new investors to pay the returns promised to earlier investors, rather than investing the money as promised. When the scheme eventually collapsed, many investors lost a significant portion of their savings and retirement funds. Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison for his crimes.<>Bernie Madoff was a financial advisor and investment manager who operated a Ponzi scheme, a fraudulent investment scheme in which he promised high returns to investors but actually used the money from new investors to pay the returns promised to earlier investors, rather than generating actual profits through legitimate business activities. Madoff's scheme eventually collapsed, and he was convicted of securities fraud and other charges in 2009. He is currently serving a prison sentence.","Bernie Madoff was a financial advisor and the former chairman of the NASDAQ stock exchange. He was convicted of running a Ponzi scheme, in which he promised investors high returns on their investments, but instead of investing their money, he used it to pay off earlier investors and for his own personal expenses. Madoff's scheme defrauded thousands of investors out of billions of dollars.","Bernie Madoff was a financier who operated a massive Ponzi scheme, defrauding thousands of investors of billions of dollars. In a Ponzi scheme, early investors are paid returns with the money of later investors, rather than with any actual profits earned. Madoff claimed to be running a successful investment firm, but in reality he was using the funds of new investors to pay the returns promised to earlier investors, rather than investing the money as promised. When the scheme eventually collapsed, many investors lost a significant portion of their savings and retirement funds. Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison for his crimes.<>open_qa