Is there an online service that provides public company information through a public API? <>I don't know of any free API's for these data, but I'll provide what information I can. Compiling all of this information from the EDGAR system and exposing an interface to it requires a fair amount of work and maintenance, so it's usually market data companies that have the motivation and resources to provide such interfaces. I know of a few options that may or may not be close to what you're looking for. The SEC provides FTP access to the EDGAR system. You could download and parse the text files they provide. Yahoo Finance provides summary files of financial statements (e.g., GOOG) as well as links to the full statements in the EDGAR system. Once again, parsing may be your only option for these data. Xignite, a proprietary market data provider, provides a financial statement API. If you need these data for a commercial application, you could contact them and work something out. (Frankly, if you need these data for a commercial application, you're probably better off paying for the data) The Center for Research into Security Prices provides data from financial statements. I believe it's also exposed through several of their API's. As with most financial data, CRSP is sort of a gold standard, although I haven't personally used their API to fetch data from financial statements, so I can't speak for it specifically. This answer on StackOverflow mentions the quantmod R package and mergent. I can't vouch for either of those options personally. Unfortunately, you'll probably have to do some parsing unless you can find a paid data provider that's already compiled this information in a machine-readable format.<>Yes, there are several online services that provide public company information through a public API. Some examples include:Bloomberg: Bloomberg's Terminal product offers access to financial and market data, news, and analytics through a proprietary API.Yahoo Finance: Yahoo Finance provides financial data and stock market news through a public API that can be accessed using Yahoo's developer tools.Google Finance: Google Finance provides financial market data, including stock prices, through a public API that can be accessed using the Google Finance API.Thomson Reuters: Thomson Reuters offers access to a range of financial and market data through its Eikon and DataScope products, which can be accessed through proprietary APIs.Nasdaq: Nasdaq offers access to a range of financial market data, including stock prices and trading data, through its Market Data APIs.It's worth noting that some of these services may require a subscription or payment to access their APIs or certain types of data. It's also worth noting that the availability and terms of use for these APIs may vary and may change over time.<>finance