What could be the possible reasons of getting infected by hbsag?hi i m 7 months pregnant 27 yrs old i m found to be hbsag infected although i was vaccinated in childhood against this infection whereas my husband is hbsag negative how would it affect my child and whta should i do?  what could be the possible reasons of getting infected? plz guide<>Hello Madam,Thank you for your question and welcome to Health Care Magic. I read carefully your query and I understand your concerns.The trasmission pathways of HBV are via infected blood (e.g transfusion) or blood contamined equipments(unsterile needles e.g having a tattoo, piercing, or having dental procedures etc.) and infected body fluids (unprotected sex).Regarding the possible treatment of your child, I would strongly recommend to you to have prenatal care because in utero infection is uncommon, representing no more than 5 percent of perinatal HBV infections. With such a presentation on my clinic I would recommend Hepatitis B Vaccine - first dose of the vaccine series and Hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) - 1 or 2 dose to be given immediately in the delivery room (or within the first 12 hours of life), then there is more than a 95% chance that a newborn will avoid a chronic HBV infection.Hope I helped with my answer. Feel free to ask again if you have further concerns, I would be happy to answer you.Wishing you health,Dr. Ina<>There are several possible reasons why you may have become infected with the hepatitis B virus, even if you were vaccinated against it as a child:\n\nYou may have come into contact with the virus through:\nSexual contact with an infected person\nSharing needles or other drug injection equipment with an infected person\nBeing accidentally stuck with a needle that has been contaminated with the virus\nYou may have become infected through exposure to blood or body fluids of an infected person, such as through a blood transfusion or organ transplant.\n\nYou may have become infected through close contact with an infected person in your household, such as through sharing personal hygiene items like razors or toothbrushes.\n\nIt's important to note that being infected with the hepatitis B virus during pregnancy can increase the risk of your baby becoming infected with the virus. However, there are steps that you can take to reduce this risk. You should talk to your healthcare provider about getting your baby vaccinated against hepatitis B at birth, as well as getting tested for the virus.\n\nIf you have been infected with the hepatitis B virus, it's important to follow the treatment recommendations of your healthcare provider and to practice good hygiene to prevent spreading the virus to others. This may include washing your hands frequently, covering any cuts or wounds, and avoiding sharing personal items like toothbrushes or razors.<>medicine