Organizing Expenses\/Income\/Personal Finance Documents (Paperless Office)<>If it was me, I would organize something along these lines.  in large part because down the road when it comes time to purge stuff like small receipts, utility bills etc, you'll be doing it per year, at the 7 year point or something similar. Year first Under that major categories such as Mortgage, Utilities, Credit, Major Purchases, Home Improvement, Other I'd do a monthly breakdown for Other since it's likely to have a lot of little stuff, and bulking it up by month helps to organize it.  But I'd not bother with that for the other items, since there's going to be limited items in each one. If you are scanning stuff on a regular basis, and using a decent naming convention for the receipts, then you could easily sort by date, or name, within any of the larger categories to see for example, all the electric bills. in order. You might also want to look at a cloud service such as DOXO as an alternative to storing this stuff at home (they also work with a number of companies to do electronic billing etc)  In terms of retention, if you are a homeowner, save anything related to your mortgage and anything that goes towards the house, even little maintenance stuff, and any improvements, as all of that goes against the cost basis of the house when you sell.  Generally, after 7 years, you are unlikely to need anything in the way of small receipts, utility bills, etc.   in any case, be sure you have regular backups offsite, either by storing stuff in the cloud such as doxo, or via a regular backup service such as carbonite.  you don't want to lose all your records to a house fire, natural disaster, or having your computer stolen etc.<>There are several ways to organize your expenses, income, and personal finance documents in a paperless office. Here are a few options:Use a financial management software: There are many financial management software programs that allow you to input and track your expenses, income, and other financial information. Some examples include Mint, Quicken, and Personal Capital.Use a spreadsheet: You can create a spreadsheet in a program like Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets to track your expenses, income, and other financial information. This can be a good option if you prefer a more manual approach to managing your finances.Use an online document storage service: There are many online services that allow you to store and organize your documents, including Dropbox, Google Drive, and OneDrive. You can create folders to store different types of financial documents, such as receipts, bills, and bank statements.Use a physical filing system: If you prefer to keep a physical copy of your financial documents, you can use a filing system to keep them organized. This could be a filing cabinet or a set of file folders.Regardless of which method you choose, it's important to regularly review and update your financial documents to ensure that they are accurate and up to date. This will help you make informed financial decisions and better manage your money.<>finance