What if you get pre-approved for a mortgage but don't find a house in the pre-approval timeframe?<>As mentioned before - you're over-thinking the hard-pull issue. But do try to make the preapproval as close to the actual bidding as possible - because it costs money. At least from my experience, you'll get charged the application fee for preapproval, while \"pre-qualification\" is usually free. If you're seriously shopping, I find it hard to believe that you can't find a house within 3 months. If you're already in the process and your offer has been accepted and you opened the escrow - I believe the preapproval will be extended if it expires before closing. I've just had a similar case from the other side, as a buyer, and the seller had a short-sale approval that expired before closing. It was extended to make the deal happen, and that's when the bank is actually loosing money. So don't worry about that. If you haven't even started the process and the preapproval expired, you might have to start it all over again from scratch, including all the fees. The credit score is a minor issue (unless you do it every 2-3 months).<>If you get pre-approved for a mortgage but don't find a house within the pre-approval timeframe, there are a few potential outcomes:The pre-approval may expire: Most mortgage pre-approvals are valid for a certain period of time, usually around 90 days. If you don't find a house within this timeframe, the pre-approval may expire and you will need to go through the pre-approval process again.Your financial situation may have changed: Even if the pre-approval has not expired, your financial situation may have changed in the meantime. For example, you may have taken on additional debt or experienced a change in income that affects your ability to qualify for a mortgage. In this case, you may need to go through the pre-approval process again to confirm that you are still eligible for a mortgage.The lender may be willing to extend the pre-approval: In some cases, the lender may be willing to extend the pre-approval if you are actively working to find a home and need more time. It's worth reaching out to the lender to see if they are willing to do this, but keep in mind that they may require additional information or documentation before agreeing to an extension.Regardless of the outcome, it's important to keep in mind that a mortgage pre-approval is not a guarantee that you will be approved for a mortgage. The lender will still need to review your complete financial situation and the property you are interested in buying before finalizing the loan.<>finance