How or where do radio stations get their music ? Do they buy the CD albums ? Do they download the music online ? How did they get the music in the early days when radio just started ? Explain like I'm five.<>Six - year radio station employee here . Most commercial music stations have an agreement with a programming \/ distribution company like Dial Global . Every week , your station gets discs loaded with new music that fits your station 's format ( Top 40 , adult contemporary , country , etc . ) . In exchange for these discs , the station plays what are called \" barter \" commercials . Their agreement with the distribution company may be 2 minutes per hour of commercial time , for example . The distribution company has sales people that then sell this nationwide airtime to big companies like Pepsi , Home Depot , etc . Every week , the station then gets a list of commercials to play in each of those 2 minutes per hour . This is how the distribution companies make money . The stations , of course , sell the rest of their alloted commercial time to local advertisers , which is how the station itself makes money . The station 's program director likely also has a weekly phone conversation with someone at the distribution company about what songs they 're going to add to the station 's rotation that week . It 's a negotiation process , so that the company can get the songs they want on the air , and the program director can make the station sound the way he \/ she wants , as they know the local market and what the local listeners want . Record labels and promoters are likely dealing with the guy at the distribution company , not the local program directors across the country . This is why radio station playlists are often very similar across the country . College radio is a different game . No distribution companies , just a lot of music promotion companies that send CDs and MP3s of new artists to college music directors every week . The promoters then have weekly phone conversations with each station 's music director to try to get them to add the music that has just been sent to them to the station 's rotation .<>Radio stations get their music from a variety of sources. One way is by buying CDs or digital copies of songs or albums from record labels or distributors. In the early days of radio, stations would often receive physical copies of records or tapes in the mail. Today, it is also common for stations to download music files from online platforms, such as online music stores or music distribution websites.\n\nIn the early days of radio, stations would play live music or make their own recordings of songs. They might also play music from phonograph records, which were like early versions of CDs. As radio became more popular, record labels began to release special versions of songs called \"radio edits\" that were shorter and had fewer lyrics, making them easier for radio stations to play.\n\nOverall, radio stations have many different ways of getting music to play on the air.<>Radio stations get their music from a variety of sources. One way is by buying CDs or digital copies of songs or albums from record labels or distributors. In the early days of radio, stations would often receive physical copies of records or tapes in the mail. Today, it is also common for stations to download music files from online platforms, such as online music stores or music distribution websites.\n\nIn the early days of radio, stations would play live music or make their own recordings of songs. They might also play music from phonograph records, which were like early versions of CDs. As radio became more popular, record labels began to release special versions of songs called \"radio edits\" that were shorter and had fewer lyrics, making them easier for radio stations to play.\n\nOverall, radio stations have many different ways of getting music to play on the air.<>reddit_eli5