How did the Soviet Union remain a superpower even if it was inefficient ? By inefficient , I mean that it was inefficient economically wise , like good old US politicians say . Everyone knows that communism and sharing stuff is bad . Please explain like I'm five.<>I went to the Soviet Union in 1989 just before everything collapsed . Outside of Moscow and Leningrad ( Now back to St Petersburg ) it was like stepping back in time to the 1920s . Keiv ( then part of the Soviet Union , not Ukraine ) was in the 1960s . I went through villages that looked like WWII had ended the month before . For many of them that was the last time they had any outside influences . They were so isolated that they had no idea how much things sucked . If your last point of reference was Nazi occupation , Soviet inefficiency seem pretty cool . For a long time that inefficient system still managed to deliver food and basic goods . Again compared to war time , it was good living . I had Russian instructors who had been in Stalingrad during the siege and had committed cannibalism . Compared to that , lots of things are good . But once the wall came down in East Germany information \/ news spread rapidly and those people became angry . Mostly they were angry at those in Moscow for knowing and not telling . Once that social compact was broken it was every man for himself and the whole thing imploded . So I would say that internally they maintained \" at least its better than when the Nazis were here \" for a LONG time . Once people realized that even the Nazis were living well now they got angry fast .<>The Soviet Union was a superpower because it had a large and powerful military, a strong industrial base, and a significant influence on global politics. It was able to maintain this status despite being economically inefficient because it was able to allocate a large portion of its resources towards military and industrial production. Additionally, the Soviet Union was able to maintain political control over its satellite states in Eastern Europe, which further enhanced its power and influence. It's important to note that the idea that communism and sharing are inherently bad is a matter of opinion, and there are different ways to evaluate the economic and social systems of different countries. Some people believe that communism and sharing can be effective ways to organize a society, while others disagree.<>reddit_eli5