Why no major car brand will manufacture a small pickup truck ? Seems like a huge opportunity for a company to offer a stripped down 4 cylinder truck for 12 - 15k marketed at younger buyer and foster a loyal following to buy nicer trucks in the future . Explain like I'm five. <>I work for a Nissan dealer . We market the Frontier , which can be had for as little as 20k . It does not sell . Largely , this is due to the fact that a truck , to be useful , must have a body on frame design and a bed . Both of these kill gas mileage , which is a priority for most cheap vehicle buyers . In addition , the capability of a 4 - cylinder in terms of towing and payload is so poor that most find the need to go to a 6 cylinder . At that point , the price starts to creep into the 25k range in a world where a ( very ) basic half - ton can be had in the low 30k range . Therefore , most go for a new half - ton ( more money ) or a used half - ton ( better capability ) . Keep in mind , this is with practically no difference in fuel economy . TLDR : Trucks cheap enough to be substantially less money than a full - size are practically useless , trucks that have the equipment to accomplish anything worthwhile are too close in price to a half - ton .<>There are a few reasons why major car brands might not manufacture a small pickup truck. One reason is that it might not be profitable for them to do so. Producing a small pickup truck would require the company to invest in research and development, as well as design and manufacture a new vehicle. This can be expensive, and the company might not be able to sell enough of these trucks to make back the money they invested.\\n\\nAnother reason is that there might not be enough demand for a small pickup truck. Many people who want a pickup truck are looking for a larger, more powerful vehicle that can handle heavy loads and tow trailers. A smaller, less powerful truck might not be able to meet these needs, and so people might not be interested in buying it.\\n\\nFinally, there are already several companies that make small pickup trucks, so it might be difficult for a major car brand to compete in this market. These companies have already established a loyal following of customers, and it might be hard for a new entrant to break into the market and gain a significant share of the sales.<>reddit_eli5