What the numbers for a computer processor mean , ( e.g. , Ghz , cache , generation , ) and how they are related to performance . Say , would a 2nd generation 2.66 Ghz i5 be better than the latest i7 @ 2.2 Ghz . Explain like I'm five.<>it is hard to compare performance across different generations . One reason why it is hard to say one is better is because there are lots of ways to be better . What best for you means is different depending on how you use your computer . GHz means billions of cycles per second , basically how many times per second that the CPU does something . That sounds very standard , like it is something that you could compare across different processors but actually there is a lot of difference between what a processor can get done in one cycle . Modern processors can get more than one thing done in one cycle ( even on one core ) . Do n't ask me how . In general the later the generation the more the processor can get done . Core i5 vs i7 is a bit tricky . When Intel is making processors they try to make everything on the chip work , but that is very hard . Often a few parts of it do n't work . Other parts can make up for the broken parts but it will be a little slower in which case they label it an i5 or i3 . If too many things are broken on one they throw it out . For the processor to get something done it needs some information to work on . It could pull that information from the hard drive but that would really slow . The RAM is much faster place to get information from but is still a bit slow if you need to get it really often . The cache is right on the processor and can be used really fast . There are different levels of cache . Some are small and really fast , some are bigger but slower ( still a lot smaller and faster than RAM . Now there is the question of which of these things matter the most . Like most questions the answer is \" it depends . \" The latest generation of Intel chips uses a lot less electricity than the 2nd generation and has faster graphics but is not a lot faster in other ways . If you do n't care about how much electricity it uses ( heat and battery life ) then a faster 2nd generation will be faster if it does more GHz . Even if you are not on a laptop you might care about heat . How hot processors are does a lot to change how fast they are . If they get too hot they have to slow down so they down burn . If you are doing something that uses a lot of computer power for long times like transcoding video the heat limits how fast it can go . If you are doing something like web browsing where the processor is needed in short bursts it wo n't over heat and have so slow down . Good luck .<>Sure! Let me try to explain this in a way that's easy to understand.\n\nA computer processor, also known as a CPU (Central Processing Unit), is the brain of the computer. It's responsible for carrying out instructions and performing calculations for the computer. The numbers and terms you mentioned are used to describe the different features and capabilities of a CPU.\n\nHere's what each of those terms mean:\n\nGHz: GHz stands for gigahertz. It's a unit of measurement that refers to how fast a processor can carry out instructions. The higher the GHz, the faster the processor.\n\nCache: Cache is a type of memory that a processor can access very quickly. It's used to store frequently used data and instructions, so the processor doesn't have to keep accessing the main memory all the time. A processor with a larger cache can generally perform faster because it has more information readily available to it.\n\nGeneration: The generation of a processor refers to the specific design and technology that was used to build it. Newer generations of processors generally have more advanced technology and can perform better than older ones.\n\nNow, to answer your question about whether a 2nd generation 2.66 GHz i5 would be better than the latest i7 @ 2.2 GHz, it's not as simple as comparing just one number. The overall performance of a processor depends on a combination of factors, including the GHz, the size of the cache, and the specific features and technology used.\n\nIn general, a newer generation processor is likely to be more powerful than an older one, even if it has a slightly lower GHz rating. However, it's also important to consider other factors, such as the specific workloads and tasks the processor will be used for. For example, a processor with a higher GHz rating might be better suited for tasks that require a lot of quick calculations, while a processor with a larger cache might be better for tasks that involve accessing and storing large amounts of data.\n\nI hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5