What will happen on the International Space Station if the situation with Russia and the USA \/ NATO escalates ? Does any country have exclusive rights to be there ? Or are there already rules Joe stipulations in place for if anything like this happens ? Please explain like I'm five.<>The ISS is governed by a set of written agreements between the parties that operate it - the US , Russia , Japan , and the EU . Those agreements cover dispute resolution between the parties and also describe how the ISS could be disassembled if necessary . The worst theoretical case is that the Russians cut the ties between their section of the ISS , close the hatches , and detach their modules from the rest of the structure and fly them away . They plan to do this if \/ when the ISS is decommissioned anyway . The Russian segments have the thrusters the ISS uses to adjust it 's orbit and they have their own solar power systems . That would leave the rest of the structure without the ability to move out of the way of orbital debris or to be flown higher to overcome atmospheric drag . NASA , the EU and Japan would have to scramble to fly some hardware to the ISS to address those concerns quickly . Right now the only human - rated vehicle that can reach the ISS is Russian ( the Soyuz ) . However SpaceX says that by the end of May they 'll be ready to talk about crewed Dragon flights and I 'm sure they 've had a plan ready to fly crewed Dragons from the ISS back to earth since the start in an emergency basis . So we could almost certainly get everyone off the ISS without the Russians ' help , and there 's a good chance we could get new crew to the ISS if we were willing to accept a high risk to the mission . The ISS is mostly \" run \" from NASA 's side . 80 % of the station is NASA , EU or JAX hardware . The tech that handles most of what the ISS has to do to operate is managed by Americans . NASA could operate the ISS without Russia but the reverse is not true .<>The International Space Station (ISS) is a cooperative project between several countries, including the United States, Russia, and several other countries in Europe and Canada. If the situation between the United States and Russia were to escalate, it is unlikely that it would affect the ISS directly. The ISS is a place for scientific research and cooperation, and the countries involved in the ISS program have agreed to work together peacefully in space. There are already rules and guidelines in place for how the ISS should be run and how the different countries should work together, and these rules would continue to be followed even if the situation on Earth changed.<>reddit_eli5