Is inflation inapplicable in a comparison of paying off debt vs investing?<>I'd agree, inflation affects the value of the dollar you measure anything in. So, it makes your debt fade away at the same rate it eats away at dollar denominated assets. I'd suggest that one should also look at the tax effect of the debt or assets as well.  For example, my 3.5% mortgage costs me 2.625% after tax. But a 4% long term cap gain in stocks, costs me .6% in tax for a net 3.4%.<>Inflation is a factor that should be considered when comparing the costs of paying off debt and investing. Inflation is the general increase in prices and fall in the purchasing power of money over time. It means that the same amount of money will be worth less in the future due to the increase in prices of goods and services.When you are comparing the costs of paying off debt versus investing, you need to consider the real cost of the debt, which takes into account the effect of inflation. For example, if you have a debt with an interest rate of 5% and an inflation rate of 3%, the real cost of the debt is actually 8%. This means that if you choose to pay off the debt, you will effectively be paying 8% per year on the debt.On the other hand, if you choose to invest the money instead of paying off the debt, you may be able to earn a return that exceeds the inflation rate. If you can earn a return of, say, 6% on your investments, and the inflation rate is 3%, then your real return is actually 3%. In this case, investing may be a better option than paying off the debt because you are earning a higher real return on your investments.However, it is important to note that there are many other factors to consider when deciding whether to pay off debt or invest. These may include your personal financial situation, your risk tolerance, and the terms of the debt and the investments you are considering. It is always a good idea to carefully consider all of these factors and seek the advice of a financial professional before making any financial decisions.<>finance