Why do Muslims get in an uproar if there is imagery of Muhammad ? I get that it is offensive to them , but why is it exactly ? Please explain like I'm five.<>There is a provision in the Hadith ( a collection of sayings that are n't in the Quran but are of Mohammed ) that says no living thing should be depicted ( remember the Protestant 2nd commandment ; thou shalt not make unto me a graven image ) . Also , Islam was founded in a period of Iconoclasm , where EasternChristians were uneasy using art forms of Jesus . This is why Islam today does not draw living things overall , but will usually relent the pictures of fish and birds to preserve the holiness of the Prophets ' depicted . This is also why Islamic Art is calligraphy . The Dome of the Rock , one of the earliest surviving monuments of Islam , is covered in fancy gold writing of Quranic verses .<>Muslims view Muhammad as a prophet of God who was sent to teach people about Islam. They believe that Muhammad was a very important and revered figure, and that he should be respected and treated with honor. In Islamic tradition, it is considered disrespectful and offensive to depict Muhammad in any kind of visual artwork, such as a painting or drawing. This is because Muslims believe that such depictions could be used to offend or disrespect Muhammad, and that they could lead to idolatry, which is the worship of something other than God. For these reasons, many Muslims get upset if they see imagery of Muhammad being used in a way that they believe is disrespectful.<>Muslims view Muhammad as a prophet of God who was sent to teach people about Islam. They believe that Muhammad was a very important and revered figure, and that he should be respected and treated with honor. In Islamic tradition, it is considered disrespectful and offensive to depict Muhammad in any kind of visual artwork, such as a painting or drawing. This is because Muslims believe that such depictions could be used to offend or disrespect Muhammad, and that they could lead to idolatry, which is the worship of something other than God. For these reasons, many Muslims get upset if they see imagery of Muhammad being used in a way that they believe is disrespectful.<>reddit_eli5