homelessness and Skid Row in LA Why is there so much homelessness ? How did this happen and why is it increasing ? Explain like I'm five. <>Mental illness . Persistently homeless people tend to have mental illnesses and there are n't enough places to treat them , so they end up congregating together on the streets .<>Homelessness is when a person does not have a place to live and must sleep outside or in a shelter. There are many reasons why someone might become homeless. For example, they might not have enough money to pay for a place to live, or they might have lost their job and can't afford to pay rent. Some people become homeless because they have mental health problems or substance abuse issues and are unable to take care of themselves.\\n\\nSkid Row is a neighborhood in Los Angeles where many homeless people live. It is called Skid Row because it used to be a place where logs (large pieces of wood) were skidded (dragged) down the street by horses. Skid Row is a place where homeless people can go to find resources like food, water, and shelters.\\n\\nThere are many factors that contribute to the high number of homeless people in Skid Row and in Los Angeles in general. One factor is the high cost of living in Los Angeles, which makes it difficult for some people to afford a place to live. Another factor is the lack of affordable housing, which means there are not enough places for people to live that they can afford. Additionally, some people become homeless due to issues like mental health problems or substance abuse, which can make it difficult for them to maintain stable housing.\\n\\nHomelessness is increasing in many cities across the United States, including Los Angeles. This is because there are not enough resources and support systems in place to help people who are struggling to afford housing or who are facing other challenges that make it difficult for them to maintain stable housing.<>Homelessness is when a person does not have a place to live and must sleep outside or in a shelter. There are many reasons why someone might become homeless. For example, they might not have enough money to pay for a place to live, or they might have lost their job and can't afford to pay rent. Some people become homeless because they have mental health problems or substance abuse issues and are unable to take care of themselves.\\n\\nSkid Row is a neighborhood in Los Angeles where many homeless people live. It is called Skid Row because it used to be a place where logs (large pieces of wood) were skidded (dragged) down the street by horses. Skid Row is a place where homeless people can go to find resources like food, water, and shelters.\\n\\nThere are many factors that contribute to the high number of homeless people in Skid Row and in Los Angeles in general. One factor is the high cost of living in Los Angeles, which makes it difficult for some people to afford a place to live. Another factor is the lack of affordable housing, which means there are not enough places for people to live that they can afford. Additionally, some people become homeless due to issues like mental health problems or substance abuse, which can make it difficult for them to maintain stable housing.\\n\\nHomelessness is increasing in many cities across the United States, including Los Angeles. This is because there are not enough resources and support systems in place to help people who are struggling to afford housing or who are facing other challenges that make it difficult for them to maintain stable housing.<>reddit_eli5