Why does North Korea hate the US so much ? Kim Jong - Un just sounds like a posturing , spoiled fat kid with toys looking for attention . I 'm guess I 'm not understanding the full picture ? Explain like I'm five.<>Imagine that North Korea invaded the USA , attempting to overthrow its democratic government and replace it with a dictatorship . The USA would totally be mad about it , right ? Well , North Korea claims that 's what we did to them . ( And this is n't entirely without merit ; North Korea may not be democratic , but the government we set up in South Korea * was * a dictatorship until very recently . )<>There are many complex factors that have contributed to the strained relationship between the United States and North Korea. Here is a simplified explanation:\n\nNorth Korea is a country in East Asia that has been ruled by the same family (the Kims) for several generations. The current leader, Kim Jong-un, is the grandson of the country's founder, Kim Il-sung.\n\nThe United States is a country located in North America that has a long history of political and military involvement in other parts of the world. The United States and North Korea have had a difficult relationship for many years, partly because they have different political systems and values.\n\nOne of the main issues between the United States and North Korea is the issue of nuclear weapons. North Korea has developed nuclear weapons, which the United States and many other countries see as a threat to global security. The United States has also imposed economic sanctions on North Korea in an effort to prevent it from developing nuclear weapons.\n\nAnother factor that has contributed to the strained relationship is the fact that North Korea has a history of human rights abuses. The North Korean government has been accused of violating the rights of its own citizens, including political prisoners and people who try to leave the country without permission.\n\nIt's important to note that the relationship between the United States and North Korea is complex, and there are many other factors that have contributed to the tension between the two countries. However, these are some of the main reasons why North Korea and the United States have had a difficult relationship.<>reddit_eli5