Is there a law or regulation that governs the maximum allowable interest amount that can be charged on credit cards or in agreements where credit is extended?<>In the EU, you might be looking for Directive 2000\/35\/EC (Late Payment Directive). There was a statutory rate, 7% above the European Central Bank main rate. However, this Directive was recently repealed by Directive 2011\/7\/EU, which sets the statutory rate at ECB + 8%. (Under EU regulations, Directives must be turned into laws by national governments, which often takes several months. So in some EU countries the local laws may still reflect the old Directive. Also, the UK doesn't participate in the Euro, and doesn't follow the ECB rate)<>There are laws and regulations that place limits on the interest rates that can be charged on credit card accounts and other types of consumer loans. These laws and regulations vary depending on the jurisdiction and type of credit being extended.In the United States, the maximum allowable interest rate on credit card accounts is generally governed by state usury laws, which set limits on the interest rates that can be charged on loans made to consumers. In some states, these laws apply to all consumer loans, including credit card accounts. In other states, the laws apply only to certain types of loans, such as loans made by small lenders or payday loans.Federal law also places limits on the interest rates that can be charged on certain types of loans made to consumers. For example, the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) is a federal law that requires lenders to disclose the terms and conditions of consumer loans, including the annual percentage rate (APR) and other finance charges. TILA also prohibits certain types of lenders, such as banks and credit unions, from charging excessively high interest rates on certain types of loans, such as loans made under the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act (HOEPA).It's important to note that these laws and regulations only apply to loans made to consumers, and do not generally apply to loans made to businesses.<>finance