Q. My wrist is swollen and getting worse. Is it broken?Hello doctor,My wrist has been hurting a lot for the past week, despite me never sustaining an injury. I went to A and E where one doctor said it was broken but when I went to fracture clinic the next day other doctor said it was fine and sent me home. It is only getting worse and even more swollen. Do you think it is broken?<>Hello. You have mentioned pain around your wrist region for a week without any history of injury to the affected area. Anyways the pictures which you have sent me to show that there is a bit of swelling around the wrist region, but x-rays are required, and clinical images alone are not sufficient. The only thing which I was going across is that you have sustained three or four fractures in the past six years which if there is no significant history of trauma in previous episodes, needs further evaluation, but if there was a history of significant injury then its fine. As for the present condition, I would like to state that in patients with healthy bone metabolism and no underlying pathology, there should not be any fracture without a history of any significant trauma at your age. So, I would advise you for, 1. Crepe bandage for compression, if you can use a wrist brace for two to three weeks, it is even better. 2. Gentle anti-inflammatory medication like Ibuprofen, Paracetamol, etc., can be used for pain relief on SOS basis. 3. Ice packs should be used three to four times in a day, 10 to 15 minutes every time to keep swelling and pain to bare minimum. We can again review after seven days on how are you feeling, but in the event swelling or pain increases, it is advisable to meet up with an orthopedic surgeon and get your x-rays and other investigations done. Do not hesitate to get back to me should you need any further information. Wrist Injury X Ray Wrist - AP and Lateral views As advised Follow up after 7 days\/SOS<>It's not possible for me to accurately diagnose your wrist without examining you in person or having more information about your symptoms. Swelling and pain in the wrist can be caused by a variety of conditions, including a broken bone. However, there are other potential causes such as inflammation or an injury to a ligament, tendon, or muscle. It's important to get a proper diagnosis from a medical professional, so I would recommend that you follow up with a doctor or visit a medical facility for further evaluation. In the meantime, you can try applying an ice pack to the affected area and taking over-the-counter pain medication as directed to help manage your symptoms.<>medicine