Why is Facebook on the decline ? it is still the social media king where everyone posts their pics , statuses , etc etc . what other social media sites are attracting away users from facebook , and why ? Explain like I'm five.<>Facebook used to be the one stop shop for social media . You posted your status , pictures , and videos on Facebook . But then the market for social media has been subdivided . Twitter came along and it was better for posting stupid statuses that no one cares about so less statuses got posted . Then Instagram came along and told you THIS is how you should share your pictures with your friends . Now Vine is getting bigger . The stupid little videos that would have been posted on Facebook are now on Vine . At this point I mainly use Facebook for the group aspect now .<>Facebook is still a very popular social media platform, but it has faced some challenges in recent years. One reason is that some people are concerned about the company's data privacy practices and how it uses the personal information that people share on the platform. This has caused some people to become more cautious about what they share on Facebook or to stop using the platform altogether.\n\nAnother reason is that some people have become tired of the constant stream of posts, ads, and notifications on Facebook, and have begun to use other social media platforms that they perceive as being less cluttered or more focused on specific interests. For example, platforms like Instagram and TikTok have become very popular in recent years, particularly among younger users, because they allow people to share photos and videos in a more visual and creative way.\n\nIn addition, some people have become more interested in using social media platforms that are focused on specific interests or communities, such as forums or discussion groups, rather than platforms that are more general in nature. These platforms can be a good way for people to connect with others who have similar interests or to learn about new topics.\n\nOverall, there are many reasons why people might choose to use different social media platforms, and each person's reasons may be different. However, it's important to remember that no one platform is right for everyone, and it's okay to try out different platforms to see which ones work best for you.<>reddit_eli5