Learning investment--books to read? Fundamental\/Value\/Motley Fool<>You are smart to read books to better inform yourself of the investment process.  I recommend reading some of the passive investment classics before focusing on active investment books: If you still feel like you can generate after-tax \/ after-expenses alpha (returns in excess of the market returns), take a shot at some active investing.  If you actively invest, I recommend the Core & Satellite approach: invest most of your money in a well diversified basket of stocks via index funds and actively manage a small portion of your account.  Carefully track the expenses and returns of the active portion of your account and see if you are one of the lucky few that can generate excess returns. To truly understand a text like The Intelligent Investor, you need to understand finance and accounting.  For example, the price to earnings ratio is the equity value of an enterprise (total shares outstanding times price per share) divided by the earnings of the business.  At a high level, earnings are just revenue, less COGS, less operating expenses, less taxes and interest.  Earnings depend on a company's revenue recognition, inventory accounting methods (FIFO, LIFO), purchase price allocations from acquisitions, etc.  If you don't have a business degree \/ business background, I don't think books are going to provide you with the requisite knowledge (unless you have the discipline to read textbooks).  I learned these concepts by completing the Chartered Financial Analyst program.<>There are many books available on investment, so it can be helpful to narrow down your focus to specific topics or approaches. Here are a few recommendations for books on fundamental analysis, value investing, and the Motley Fool approach to investing:\"The Intelligent Investor\" by Benjamin Graham is a classic book on value investing. It covers the principles of fundamental analysis and how to apply them to make informed investment decisions.\"The Little Book That Still Beats the Market\" by Joel Greenblatt is another book on value investing. It provides a straightforward approach to finding undervalued companies and investing in them for the long term.\"You Can Be a Stock Market Genius\" by Joel Greenblatt is a book that focuses on finding undervalued opportunities in the stock market through special situations such as spin-offs, mergers, and bankruptcies.\"The Motley Fool Investment Guide\" by David and Tom Gardner is a book that introduces the Motley Fool's approach to investing, which focuses on finding great companies and holding them for the long term.\"The Motley Fool's Rule Breakers, Rule Makers\" by David and Tom Gardner is another book by the Motley Fool team that provides insights on finding and investing in innovative, high-growth companies.These are just a few examples of the many books available on investment. It's a good idea to do some research and read reviews to find books that are relevant to your interests and goals as an investor.<>finance