Income tax , its purpose and why it exists . I feel incredibly stupid ; but why \/ how was it conceived , and who did it ? Explain like I'm five.<>So a group of people showed up on a piece of land . They were explorers , and wanted some land for themselves because the place they come from was too crowded . They started to build a society , little hut homes for everyone , and some people decided to farm , some people decided to make clothes , some people decided to fish , and so on . Everyone agrees that hey , we need some roads and schools , so the guys who makes the roads and schools agree to do it for some fish , and crops and clothes and what not . Time goes on and eventually they switch to a money system , and the road and school builder is like \" Hey , I 'm not doing this for free . \" And the people are getting greedy and keeping all their money to themselves , instead of helping out the guy build the road . The leader is like \" Ok , what 's the deal guys ? \" and makes it a law that you got ta help the guy build roads and schools and what not , cause people wo n't do it for the ' common good . ' Income taxes are a government mandated way of helping pay for stuff everyone uses , but no one wants to foot the full cost of , such as roads , schools , armies , healthcare , and that sort of thing . It 's a way of evening out the large costs of infrastructure .<>Income tax is a tax that is paid on the money that people earn. It is used to help pay for things that are important for a country or community, such as schools, hospitals, roads, and the military. Income tax was conceived as a way for the government to raise money to pay for the things that it needs to do. The government needs money to provide services and infrastructure for the people who live in the country. Income tax is one way that the government can get that money. Income tax was first introduced in the United States in the late 1800s. It was originally only paid by the wealthy, but over time, it has been applied to people of all income levels. Now, most people who earn money have to pay some amount of income tax. Income tax can be confusing, but it is an important part of how our government is able to fund the things that we all rely on.<>reddit_eli5