Why drill instructor in the army never stop screaming at recruit in the army ? What 's the point of screaming at people like that ? Explain like I'm five. <>> What 's the point of screaming at people like that ? It is intended to rattle the recruits mentally , making them feel like they are incapable and useless . The idea is to break their self - esteem and then the group will be given tasks where the support of the entire unit is necessary to succeed . To drive the point home they will often employ collective punishment so every recruit has an interest in making sure their peers succeed . All this has the goal of making the resulting soldiers psychologically dependent upon the military and their comrades . By creating this bond through surviving abuse it puts the soldiers in a better position to be confident in the support of their peers during combat , and for those peers to run into danger in the support of their comrades . Such a technique makes great soldiers . It also arguably seriously messes people up when they get out of the military because in essence they have been psychologically abused to foster a bond with the military culture . Ex - military basically have a version of battered woman syndrome and need to relearn individuality and self - confidence outside of the military .<>Drill instructors in the military often use loud and forceful language as a way to train and discipline recruits. They do this to help recruits learn how to follow orders quickly and without hesitation, as well as to help them develop mental and physical toughness.\\n\\nThe military is a very demanding and stressful environment, and drill instructors want to make sure that recruits are prepared for the challenges they will face. One way they do this is by using a combination of physical and psychological techniques, including yelling, to push recruits to their limits and help them learn how to handle difficult situations.\\n\\nWhile it may seem harsh to some people, the goal of a drill instructor is not to bully or intimidate recruits, but rather to help them become better soldiers and leaders. By training recruits in this way, drill instructors hope to prepare them for the rigors of military service and help them succeed in their careers.<>reddit_eli5