Why do nuclear reactions require uranium ? I get that nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors split atoms to create energy . But why do they need uranium to do so ? Why do n't other atoms work ? Explain like I'm five.<>Other atoms do work . Uranium-235 is a heavy atom that is almost unstable , and therefore easy to break apart to release energy . We use it because it is the easiest one to use . Edit - mixed up my 235 and 238 . Kudos to Hiddencamper for the correction .<>Uranium is a naturally-occurring element that is found in small amounts in the earth's crust. It is special because it has a very large nucleus, which means it has a lot of protons and neutrons packed into a small space. These protons and neutrons are held together by a strong force, and it takes a lot of energy to break them apart.\n\nWhen the protons and neutrons in a uranium nucleus are split apart, a lot of energy is released. This is what happens in a nuclear reaction. Nuclear reactions are used in nuclear weapons and nuclear power plants to produce electricity.\n\nOther elements can also undergo nuclear reactions, but uranium is one of the most efficient at producing energy. This is because it has a lot of protons and neutrons packed into a small space, so it takes a lot of energy to split them apart. When they are split, a lot of energy is released. This is why uranium is used in nuclear reactions.<>Uranium is a naturally-occurring element that is found in small amounts in the earth's crust. It is special because it has a very large nucleus, which means it has a lot of protons and neutrons packed into a small space. These protons and neutrons are held together by a strong force, and it takes a lot of energy to break them apart.\n\nWhen the protons and neutrons in a uranium nucleus are split apart, a lot of energy is released. This is what happens in a nuclear reaction. Nuclear reactions are used in nuclear weapons and nuclear power plants to produce electricity.\n\nOther elements can also undergo nuclear reactions, but uranium is one of the most efficient at producing energy. This is because it has a lot of protons and neutrons packed into a small space, so it takes a lot of energy to split them apart. When they are split, a lot of energy is released. This is why uranium is used in nuclear reactions.<>reddit_eli5