Please explain what is \"Intractability (complexity)\"<>In theoretical computer science and mathematics, computational complexity theory focuses on classifying computational problems according to their resource usage, and relating these classes to each other. A computational problem is a task solved by a computer. A computation problem is solvable by mechanical application of mathematical steps, such as an algorithm.\nA problem is regarded as inherently difficult if its solution requires significant resources, whatever the algorithm used. The theory formalizes this intuition, by introducing mathematical models of computation to study these problems and quantifying their computational complexity, i.e., the amount of resources needed to solve them, such as time and storage. Other measures of complexity are also used, such as the amount of communication (used in communication complexity), the number of gates in a circuit (used in circuit complexity) and the number of processors (used in parallel computing). One of the roles of computational complexity theory is to determine the practical limits on what computers can and cannot do. The P versus NP problem, one of the seven Millennium Prize Problems, is dedicated to the field of computational complexity.\nClosely related fields in theoretical computer science are analysis of algorithms and computability theory. A key distinction between analysis of algorithms and computational complexity theory is that the former is devoted to analyzing the amount of resources needed by a particular algorithm to solve a problem, whereas the latter asks a more general question about all possible algorithms that could be used to solve the same problem. More precisely, computational complexity theory tries to classify problems that can or cannot be solved with appropriately restricted resources. In turn, imposing restrictions on the available resources is what distinguishes computational complexity from computability theory: the latter theory asks what kinds of problems can, in principle, be solved algorithmically.<>Intractability, also known as complexity, refers to the difficulty of solving a problem or completing a task using a computer algorithm. Some problems are easy to solve and can be completed quickly by a computer, while others are much more difficult and may take a long time or even be impossible to solve using current technology.\n\n\n\nIntractability can be a result of the size of the problem, the number of steps required to solve the problem, or the amount of resources (such as time or memory) needed to solve the problem. It can also be caused by the inherent complexity of the problem itself, such as when the problem requires a large amount of computation or when the problem is not well-defined.\n\n\n\nSome examples of intractable problems include the traveling salesman problem, the shortest path problem, and the knapsack problem. These problems are difficult to solve because they require a large amount of computation or because there are a large number of possible solutions that must be considered.\n\n\n\nIntractability is an important concept in computer science and can have significant implications for the design and implementation of algorithms and computer systems. Understanding the complexity of a problem can help researchers and engineers determine the feasibility of solving the problem using current technology and can inform the development of new algorithms and approaches for solving difficult problems.<>wiki_csai