How people choose stocks How do people know what stocks to invest in ? Is there a way to know which ones will be worth a lot in the future , or is it just luck ? Explain like I'm five.<>When you buy a stock , you are buying a ( usually small ) percentage of a company . You invest in a company that you think will be worth more in the future . There are many things which can contribute to this . Future growth is a big contributor to a stock 's worth , for example , had you invested in McDonald 's when it was a new company in the 60s , you would be loaded today , because you accurately predicted that McDonald 's would become the powerhouse it is today . Companies like Apple , Microsoft , Netflix , and other well known names today , used to be very small companies at one point or another , and if you had faith in them and invested , you would be very rich today . The second thing to watch for is current profitability . For example , a company like Exxon Mobil has been around for decades , however even today it is still making a ton of money , if you think this will continue , you invest in it now and then as it continues to be very profitable , more people will do the same and the stock will rise . The third reason to invest is stability . A company such as Apple will have very good and very bad results , mainly based upon if people like the new iphone ( as an example ) . A company such as Johnson and Johnson on the other hand , which sells everything from toothpaste to toilet paper to tylenol , is going to sell more or less the same amount year after year , regardless of if people \" like \" brushing their teeth , they are still going to do it lol ( it also is a good pick if the economy is going to shit since people NEED those things and wo n't stop buying them , whereas they might pick something cheaper than an iphone in a bad economy ) . Finally , the other consideration when investing in stocks is a dividend . A dividend is a small payment made by the company to everyone who holds their stock . Since you technically own a small percentage of the company , when the company makes money , it will \" pay \" you . The amount and frequency varies from company to company but is usually a small percentage of the profits each quarter ( every 3 months ) . Some companies pay big dividends and some small , but that information is publicly available on sites like yahoo finance . Stocks will increase in value when a lot of people want to buy them , and decrease in value when people want to sell them . The above listed reasons are all reasons for people to want to buy a stock . Hope this helps . More information is available on sites like investopedia .<>There are many different ways that people choose stocks to invest in. Some people do research and try to find companies that they think will do well in the future, while others just buy stocks that they think look like a good deal at the moment.\r\n\r\nOne way to try and predict which stocks will do well in the future is to look at a company's financial health. This includes things like how much money they make, how much debt they have, and how well they are managed. If a company is doing well financially, it is more likely to continue doing well in the future and the stock price may go up.\r\n\r\nAnother way to choose stocks is to diversify, or spread your investments out over a variety of different stocks and sectors. This can help to reduce the risk of losing money, because if one stock does poorly, the others may do better and balance out the loss.\r\n\r\nUltimately, investing in stocks is always going to involve some level of risk, and it is impossible to know for sure which stocks will do well in the future. Some people may have success with certain strategies, but there is no surefire way to predict which stocks will be worth a lot in the future.<>reddit_eli5