Federal ban on Medical Marijuana lifted , what this means for Federal employees Does this now mean federal employees and Military personnel could legally use medical marijuana if their state allows it ? Please explain like I'm five.<>No . Employers can still prohibit drug use ( including the government ) . That has nothing to do with the recently - passed Federal spending bill , which only prevents the Department of Justice from spending money to stop medical marijuana in the current 32 states ( plus the District of Columbia ) that currently allow it according to their state laws . The states were specifically listed ; if another state enacted medical marijuana laws tomorrow the DoJ would still be able to send DEA agents to enforce the federal laws that still prohibit it . Exact text below : * Sec . 538 . None of the funds made available in this Act to the Department of Justice may be used , with respect to the States of Alabama , Alaska , Arizona , California , Colorado , Connecticut , Delaware , District of Columbia , Florida , Hawaii , Illinois , Iowa , Kentucky , Maine , Maryland , Massachusetts , Michigan , Minnesota , Mississippi , Missouri , Montana , Nevada , New Hampshire , New Jersey , New Mexico , Oregon , Rhode Island , South Carolina , Tennessee , Utah , Vermont , Washington , and Wisconsin , to prevent such States from implementing their own State laws that authorize the use , distribution , possession , or cultivation of medical marijuana . *<>The lifting of the federal ban on medical marijuana does not necessarily mean that federal employees or military personnel are now allowed to use medical marijuana, even if their state allows it. \nThe federal government has its own laws and policies that apply to federal employees, regardless of what the laws of a particular state might be. These laws and policies are separate from the laws of the states, and they may not always be the same. \nFor example, even though some states have legalized medical marijuana, the federal government still considers marijuana to be a controlled substance, and it is illegal under federal law. This means that federal employees and military personnel are still subject to federal laws and policies when it comes to the use of marijuana, even if they are using it for medical purposes in a state where it is legal. \nIn general, federal employees and military personnel are expected to follow all federal laws and policies, including those related to the use of controlled substances like marijuana. So, even if the federal ban on medical marijuana has been lifted, it does not necessarily mean that federal employees or military personnel are now allowed to use medical marijuana. It is important to check with your employer or the relevant authorities to understand what the rules are in your specific situation.<>reddit_eli5