Why are all political comedians on the left ? Perhaps I 'm just unaware of more right sided political comedians ? Explain like I'm five. <>They certainly exist . In fact , Kellyanne Conway had a routine from several years ago that recently made its rounds on the internet ( though she was n't trying to be a comedian - it was just for fun ) . Most of the Blue Collar comedy tour is conservative , though they tend to avoid politics . Dennis Miller is conservative , though he does n't focus on political comedy as much and when he does he 's pretty vague ( as in not attacking specific Obama policies ) . That being said , comedians are more likely to be liberal . For whatever reason , writing and the creative arts attract more politically liberal people . Part of that probably has to do with wanting to avoid censorship and supporting expression over other priorities . Part of it probably has to do with the lifestyle many of those professions demand ( little money until you make it , irregular hours , dealing with crude heckling ) . And part of it has to do with what the philosophies stand for themselves - liberals generally think government institutions are for the people and need to know they 're not better than us . Conservatives tend to think tradition and institutions should be respected and revered instead . That is n't to say conservatives never think you should joke or that liberals do n't respect their government . However , a joke about how unwelcoming America is to immigrants right now might seem like a disrespectful slight to a conservative while a liberal would see at as a jab that 's trying to spur progress .<>Political comedians often express their personal beliefs and opinions through their comedy, and it's possible that you may be more familiar with comedians who hold left-leaning views. It's also possible that comedians with right-leaning views may not be as well known or may not receive as much attention in the media.\\n\\nIt's important to remember that not all comedians align with a particular political ideology, and that comedy can be a way for people to express a variety of viewpoints and ideas. It's also worth noting that comedy is often used to challenge and critique the political establishment, regardless of the comedian's personal beliefs.<>reddit_eli5