What actually happened at the V.I Lenin powerplant to cause the Chernobyl accident ? I 've read a lot about this topic , but a lot of it is contradictory , circumstantial , or just plain confusing . Can anyone lend some concise enlightenment ? Please explain like I'm five.<>From memory , and in eli5 terms : They were running a test , which set up conditions that rapidly heated the reactor . The folks in the control room were unclear on what was happening , reacted the wrong way , and caused a huge release of heat . Because of the design of the reactor , there was room between the top of the reactor and the top of the heated water . This meant that when the heat spiked , the water close to the fuel boiled instantly , threw the rest of the water upward like a giant , multi - ton hammer , smashed the reactor to bits , exposed the fuel rods to air and caught the graphite that was supposed to help protect things on fire instead . The roof of the entire building blew off and bits of it also caught fire , and everything , including a lot of the fuel , was able to burn into the atmosphere . The Soviet government refused to say anything was wrong until multiple days later , when radioactive particles were detected falling in Sweden . Many Russian workers and soldiers died ( or received lethal radiation doses then died later ) trying to put out fires and cool down the remaining reactor fuel . Eventually this included tactics like dropping bags of sand onto the hole in the building from helicopters . The whole city around Chernobyl had to be evacuated and remains so to this day . Edit : should say Soviet workers and soldiers , not just Russian chernobyl is in what is now Ukraine .<>Sure! The Chernobyl accident was caused by a combination of factors that led to a catastrophic failure at the V.I Lenin nuclear power plant in Ukraine. Here's what happened:The power plant was using a type of nuclear reactor called a RBMK (reaktor bolshoy moshchnosty kanalnyy, or \"high-power channel-type reactor\"). This type of reactor had a design flaw that made it unstable at low power levels.On the night of the accident, the operators of the power plant were conducting a test to see how long the turbines would spin after the power was shut off. To do this, they had to reduce the power of the reactor.As the power was reduced, the reactor became unstable and started to vibrate. The operators tried to increase the power to stabilize the reactor, but it was too late.The reactor exploded, causing a fire that burned for several days. The fire released a lot of radioactive material into the air, which spread across Europe and beyond.I hope that helps! Let me know if you have any more questions.<>reddit_eli5