Schrödinger 's cat expiriment . URL_0 My dad was trying to explain this to me but it goes right over my head , can anyone help me ? Please explain like I'm five.<>This is an incredibly simplified version , but think of it this way . You drop your phone and it lands face down on its screen , and you ca n't see the screen . The screen is either cracked \/ scratched or it is n't . Until you flip it over , the screen is both cracked and not cracked .<>Schrödinger's cat is a thought experiment, proposed by the Austrian physicist Erwin Schrödinger in 1935, to explain a strange behavior of subatomic particles. It's not a real experiment that you can do in a lab, but it's a way of thinking about how things work on a very small scale. Here's how it works: Imagine you have a cat in a box, and inside the box there is a container with a poison that will be released and kill the cat if a radioactive particle decays (breaks apart). The box is sealed, so you don't know whether the poison has been released or not. According to the rules of quantum mechanics, the radioactive particle exists in a state of \"superposition,\" which means it can be both decayed and not decayed at the same time. This means that the cat is also in a state of superposition, where it is both alive and dead at the same time. When you open the box and observe the cat, the act of observing it causes the particle to \"collapse\" into one state or the other. So if you observe the cat and it's alive, that means the particle didn't decay and the poison wasn't released. But if you observe the cat and it's dead, that means the particle decayed and the poison was released. The idea of Schrödinger's cat is to illustrate how strange and counterintuitive the rules of quantum mechanics can be, and how our observation of the world around us can affect what happens in it. It's a thought experiment that helps us understand how the world works on a very small scale, and it has helped scientists make important discoveries about the way the universe works.<>reddit_eli5