Why Socialism is ( supposedly ) bad . Every citizen is given equal opportunity . Health care is provided to all , and no person is above any other . So why , then , is this frowned upon ? ( Namely in the USA ) Explain like I'm five.<>No ELI5 explanation could capture all the complexities of socialist philosophy or economic theory , but much of the American backlash against it originates with a deep cultural aversion to being forced by the state to give up what you 've earned for the benefit of those who have not earned it . Those who have not \" pulled their own weight \" are viewed as freeloaders and parasites , and therefore have to right to take the fruits of other people 's labors . Add to this the popular opinion that governments are incompetent and inefficient at administrating social programs , and you have a society in which the benefits of a more socialist economy ( e.g. , healthcare ) are perceived to be far outweighed by the costs and risks .<>Socialism is a system in which the government owns and controls certain industries and resources, and redistributes wealth among the population. It is often associated with the idea of equal opportunity and providing basic needs, such as healthcare, to all citizens. However, socialism is sometimes criticized for a number of reasons. One criticism is that it can lead to inefficiencies and shortages because the government, rather than the market, is responsible for deciding what goods and services should be produced and how they should be distributed. This can lead to long lines, shortages of certain products, and a lack of innovation. Another criticism is that socialism can limit individual freedom and choice. In a socialist system, the government has a great deal of control over the economy and individual behavior. This can lead to restrictions on what people can do and how they can live their lives. Finally, some people argue that socialism is simply not fair because it takes wealth from those who have earned it and gives it to others who may not have worked as hard or contributed as much to society. This can create resentment and discourage people from working hard and being productive. Overall, the debate over socialism versus other economic systems, such as capitalism, is complex and can be difficult to understand. Different people have different opinions about which system is best and why.<>reddit_eli5