How do people get caught pirating music ? It seems like people are caught for such a small number of songs \/ movies , but there are people that download \/ seed WAY more than that . Can someone please explain this to me ? Thanks ! Explain like I'm five.<>Downloading does n't get you caught , uploading does . Very few ISP 's give a damn what you download , because you 're paying for a private line . But , when you start uploading large amounts of data , it raises a red flag . This is n't just for piracy , it 's also because a lot of ISP 's have policies against running servers on private lines because they eat up bandwidth . Most people who get caught or get those \" cease and desist \" letters were seeding and their ISP took notice because of a spike in upload rates . That said , I have spoken to multiple technicians from my ISP ( WOW!\/Sigecom ) and they all flat out told me that as long as I pay my bill , they do n't give half a damn about what I do with my internet so long as it is n't child porn . TL;DR - Downloading is pretty safe , uploading \/ seeding is not . They catch you because they can see everything you do on your internet connection and will usually look more closely if they see big upload spikes .<>Pirating music or other copyrighted materials is illegal, and people can get caught by authorities if they are found to be doing it. There are a few ways that people can get caught:\n\nInternet Service Providers (ISPs) and other companies that provide online services can monitor the activity of their users and may report illegal activity to authorities.\n\nCopyright holders and their representatives (such as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in the US) can use special software to track people who are sharing copyrighted material online without permission.\n\nAuthorities can also conduct investigations and raid homes or businesses where they suspect illegal activity is taking place.\n\nIt's difficult to know exactly how many people are pirating music or other materials, but it's likely that only a small percentage of people who do it get caught. This is because it can be difficult to track and catch people who are doing it, especially if they are using software or techniques to hide their activity. However, it's important to remember that even if you are not caught, pirating is still illegal and can have serious consequences.<>Pirating music or other copyrighted materials is illegal, and people can get caught by authorities if they are found to be doing it. There are a few ways that people can get caught:\n\nInternet Service Providers (ISPs) and other companies that provide online services can monitor the activity of their users and may report illegal activity to authorities.\n\nCopyright holders and their representatives (such as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in the US) can use special software to track people who are sharing copyrighted material online without permission.\n\nAuthorities can also conduct investigations and raid homes or businesses where they suspect illegal activity is taking place.\n\nIt's difficult to know exactly how many people are pirating music or other materials, but it's likely that only a small percentage of people who do it get caught. This is because it can be difficult to track and catch people who are doing it, especially if they are using software or techniques to hide their activity. However, it's important to remember that even if you are not caught, pirating is still illegal and can have serious consequences.<>reddit_eli5