LI5 , the current patent controversy between the top tech companies Google , MSFT , Apple , etc . It 's been popping up every other day in tech news , but I 'm not too sure of the significance and current status quo . Thanks ! Explain like I'm five.<>Before the 80s software was covered by copyrights instead of patents where unless you copied something exactly you were not liable to be sued for stealing someone 's ideas . However large companies wanted more protection of their software and after some court cases including some at the supreme court they changed the rules and started allowing patents of software ideas rather then just a copyright on the specific code . The idea was that it would give inventors and programmers more incentive to come up with new ideas as they would have more legal protections from having their ideas stolen . However because patents can be very vague they ended up issuing patents to lots of things that maybe were not new concepts , such as \" transmitting data over the internet \" . So instead of encouraging innovation it led to companies getting issued patents for simple things everyone did and then sue each other for \" stealing \" ideas . Also some lawyers saw that big software companies would just payout settlements to avoid going to court and decided to just sue every company with big money with the hopes of getting a fat payout to make them go away . So now companies will pay lots of money for the patent rights for stuff that should not have been patented in the first place just so they can say \" if you sue me for patent infringement then I have patents also and will sue you right back ! \" . It is a huge mess .<>I'm sorry, but I don't have any information about a current patent controversy involving Google, Microsoft, Apple, and other tech companies. It is not possible for me to provide information about current events because my training data only goes up until 2021, and I am not able to browse the internet or access any new information. However, I can tell you that patent controversies are disputes over the ownership of patents, which are legal protections that give the owner the right to prevent others from making, using, selling, or importing an invention without permission. These controversies can occur when two or more companies or individuals claim ownership of the same patent, or when one company or individual believes that another company or individual is infringing on their patent rights. These disputes can be resolved through legal proceedings, such as lawsuits or negotiations.<>reddit_eli5