How exactly does money laundering work ? I know it involves a transfer of funds and is usually associated with white - collar , but I never really understand the specifics of it . Explain like I'm five.<>Since no one else has jumped in . Firstly , see the post on [ offshore bank accounts ] ( URL_0 ) it explains money laundering as well . So , I 'm a person who wants to make money in a less then legal fashion . Lets say I extort people with threats of burning down their house . I make a million dollars every quarter doing this . For me to spend this money on things I enjoy , it needs to be legitimate . Should the feds take a look at me , because I own a mansion with 12 swimming pools ( I like swimming in different temperatures ) I 'll need to account for where all my money is coming from . So , the money that I get from my extorting , is dirty . I ca n't spend it , or it could be traced back to my illegal activities . I need to make it appear as though I legitimately earned this money . This is where money laundering comes in . I run a legitimate carpet cleaning business . It has a store front , I have carpet cleaning equipment , maybe I even clean a carpet every once in a while . In reality , I rarely clean a carpet , but by the books , this is one of the most successful carpet cleaning business in town . When I get $ 500 from someone in exchange for not burning down their house , I enter this money as profit into the carpet cleaning business . I make appropriate receipts , and even create customers . I can take the money to the bank , and deposit it in the carpet cleaning account . This money , is arguably now \" clean \" . It is appear to be legitimately earned income . I can spend it , as the owner of the carpet cleaning business . Hell , I could even pay taxes on it ( I probably wo n't , see the off shore banking ) . This same thing is done many times , with a great number of businesses . Although a paper trail as simple as the one I laid out could be easily followed , when you do this many times , the trail is harder to follow . So maybe I have an organisation , some of the businesses are more legitimate then others . All of them move money around for me in exchange for a small fee . Some times you actually get something in return , like say , I do n't want to carry around my extorted money . So I go to the butcher and buy some bacon , I get a couple pounds of bacon and spend a few hundred dollars on it . This excess pays to pick up the butchers dry cleaning , a few hundred for a clean pressed shirt . The dry cleaner takes the excess to another business . ( Remember , all this does n't actually have to involve money moving , just the paperwork involved so that when inspected , it appear legitimate ) Lather , rinse , repeat . The money now appears to be legitimately earned income from my many businesses . I am an upstanding and successful business owner and citizen . Remember that they ended up getting Capone on tax fraud . His money was so well laundered they could n't prove any of it was illegally obtained . But they could prove that he was n't paying taxes on all of it .<>Money laundering is the process of hiding the proceeds of illegal activities so that they can be used without detection. It typically involves transferring money through a series of transactions or bank accounts in order to make it difficult to trace the origin of the funds. Here's an example of how money laundering might work: A criminal organization sells illegal drugs and makes a lot of money. They need to find a way to use this money without getting caught, so they start transferring the money through a series of bank accounts, each one owned by a different person. They might also purchase assets like houses or cars with the money, and then sell these assets to other people, using the proceeds to buy more assets. Eventually, the money ends up in a bank account that is owned by a legitimate business. The business might then use the money to pay its employees or make purchases, making it look like the money came from a legitimate source. Money laundering is illegal because it helps criminals hide the profits of their illegal activities, and it can also be used to fund terrorism or other illegal activities. It is typically associated with white collar crime, but it can also be perpetrated by organized crime groups or individual criminals.<>reddit_eli5