Why do hunters wear camouflage , if they 're going to cover it with a blaze orange vest & hat ? It just seems pointless to wear all of that camo if you 're just going to cover it with the worlds most visible color . Explain like I'm five.<>... I am rather appalled at the misinformation here . It has nothing to do with the deer ( or other animal ) not being able to see orange . The blaze orange vest and hat are for the walk into the woods and the walk back out . You wear it while walking so that when other hunters hear your movement , they will quickly and clearly realize that you are a person and not something to be shot . Once you are in the woods and have reached the spot from which you will hunt ( tree - stand , blind , or simply a tree you sit against ) , you take off the blaze orange clothing and stow it away out of sight . That way the camouflage blends you into the forest while you sit there motionless observing . EDIT : According to [ projhex ] ( URL_0 ) the color orange was chosen in particular , as opposed to say - yellow , because deer in fact do not have the \" red \" cones in their eyes required to see the color orange . However , while the color does not stand out to the animal , the solid patterns would which is why the vests are generally removed and camouflage is used instead . Learn something new every day ! :)<>Hunters wear camouflage to blend in with their surroundings so that they can get closer to their prey without being seen. The orange vest and hat are worn to make the hunter more visible to other people who might be in the area, such as other hunters. This helps to prevent accidents where someone might accidentally shoot at the wrong person. The camouflage is still important, even if the hunter is also wearing a bright orange vest and hat, because it can help to break up the hunter's outline and make them harder to see at a distance.<>Hunters wear camouflage to blend in with their surroundings so that they can get closer to their prey without being seen. The orange vest and hat are worn to make the hunter more visible to other people who might be in the area, such as other hunters. This helps to prevent accidents where someone might accidentally shoot at the wrong person. The camouflage is still important, even if the hunter is also wearing a bright orange vest and hat, because it can help to break up the hunter's outline and make them harder to see at a distance.<>reddit_eli5