What makes objects transparent or translucent ? Because in my mind it makes no sense that something hard like a diamond or bullet proof glass let the light in , but squishy and soft stuff like play doh or paint , can effectively block the light . Explain like I'm five. <>Photons are very small , and they can pass between atoms . Things are transparent when the arrangement of atoms in the material lets photons through without absorbing them , and opaque when the photons are absorbed . Note that a material can be transparent to some light frequencies ( colors ) and opaque to others . Glass blocks some ultraviolet , for example ; visible light passes through the glass , but ultraviolet photons have just the right amount of built - in energy to interact really well with the Silicon Oxide molecules in the glass , and they get absorbed . Your skin and organs are transparent to x - rays , but metals and your bones are not . A material 's properties ( hardness , softness , squishiness ) are determined by the arrangement of atoms or molecules in it . Most things that are hard , like diamonds or steel , have a structure where the atoms or molecules form hexagons or cubes or some similar structure where each atom attracts the atoms around it and the material is hard . Materials that are soft or rubbery , on the other hand , have very weak ( chemical ) connections between the molecules inside . In any case , how light interacts with the material ( for transparency ) is not quite the same as the arrangement of molecules in the material or the attraction forces between them .<>Transparency is the property of a material that allows light to pass through it. When light hits an object, it can either be absorbed by the object, reflected off the object, or transmitted through the object. Transparent materials allow most of the light to pass through them, so they appear clear. Translucent materials allow some light to pass through them, but they also scatter the light, so they appear cloudy or hazy.\\n\\nThe reason that some hard materials like diamonds and bulletproof glass can be transparent is because they are made up of tiny crystals or molecules that are arranged in such a way that allows light to pass through them. Soft materials like playdough or paint are not transparent because they are made up of larger molecules that are not arranged in a way that allows light to pass through easily. Instead, the light is absorbed or scattered by the material, making it appear opaque.\\n\\nSo, the main difference between transparent and opaque materials is the way that their molecules are arranged and the size of their molecules. Transparent materials have small molecules that are arranged in a way that allows light to pass through, while opaque materials have larger molecules that absorb or scatter the light.<>reddit_eli5