How do eyes focus ? When your eyes focus in on something what is happening ? Also , why ca n't you just focus on everything at once ? Explain like I'm five.<>I 'm * * NOT * * an expert but I 'll give this a go . There are a few parts of your eye that are required to focus an image ; it 's similar to a camera . --Cameras have : 1 ) An adjustable lens that can be used to zoom in or out by moving individual lenses closer together or farther apart . 2 ) It has an aperture or shutter ; something that controls the amount of light exposure . 3 ) It has film or a pixel array ( for digital cameras ) that collects the light taken in from the lens and aperture . --The analogous parts of your eye are : 1 ) The lens which can be flexed back and forth by ciliary muscles ; these are the things that trigger pain when you try to focus on an object very close to your eye . The lens and ciliary muscles are the primary tools used by your eye to focus the light onto your retina ( the film ) . When the ciliary muscles contract or relax , they change the angle at which light hits the lens , allowing it to be focused . This depends on the distance , size of the object and angle of incoming light . Also the intraocular fluid ( the liquid that fills your eye balls and abbreviated IO ) is responsible for additional bending of the light because the refractive index between the lens and IO fluid changes . The most important change of refraction index is between the air and your lens because the change is substanitally greater ( allows the light to bend more ) . 2 ) Your iris is the aperture that controls the amount of light that is processed by your retina ; too much light and you get an over - stimulated retina ( similar to a white - washed photo ) . Too little light there 's not enough light to create an image ( darkness ) . But this bit is n't really very important for a focused image , but it is extremely important for getting a usable image . 3 ) The third component of your eye is your retina that catches the raw data of the image and sends it out to be processed . Without the light being focused very finely onto your retina , you will lose the focus of the image because the light from the object is still in pieces ; they have n't come together to form the image . People with near or far - sightedness have more or less elliptical eyeballs that cause the image to form in front of or behind the retina not * * ON * * the retina . Your ciliary muscles and lens may be able to correct for this a little bit it only goes so far . * * TL;DR :* * Your eye uses ciliary muscles , its lens , iris and retinal position to properly deliver a focused image to your brain . To attempt an answer your second question : The reason why you can not focus on everything is because you do n't have multiple eyes . Your eye can only adjust a very small amount of light that enters your eye onto your retina . The rest of the things you see are still there but they 're out of focus because the light they send off is not correctly focused ( by your lens ) onto the retina . I 'm sure I 've made a mistake or hasty generalization somewhere but I 'm confident that my answer is a good first step . Edit : Spelling and structural tweaks for easier reading .<>Your eyes have a lens inside them that helps them focus on things. When you look at something close up, your lens becomes thicker. When you look at something far away, your lens becomes thinner. This helps your eyes focus on things that are close or far away.\r\n\r\nYour eyes can't focus on everything at once because they can only focus on one thing at a time. When you look at something, your lens changes shape to help your eyes see it clearly. If you try to focus on two things at once, your eyes won't be able to see either one very clearly. It's kind of like trying to watch two TV shows at the same time on one screen. It's hard to see either one very well because you have to split your attention between them.<>reddit_eli5