Transistors I 'm a software engineer and these little black fellas blow my mind . Bonus points for a comparison with [ redstone ] ( URL_0 ) . Explain like I'm five.<>Ok so here it goes ... Imagine a middle school dance , you 're all dressed up and ready to mingle with girls , holes ( no pun intended ) , but there is this awkward barrier that keeps you and your brethren from dancing with them . This barrier is known as the depletion region , or depletion barrier . Now to get the party started teachers will come behind you and encourage you to break the awkward silence . Once you 've been pushed enough , similar to threshold voltage , you break the barrier . Your pals see you and do the same , now the party is flowing . Now you want those kids to stop because Minkus is sporting a pup tent and it 's creepy , the teachers demand the dj play the twist or elvis , a negative bias , to stop the party . Moving into a eli15 , semiconductor devices are often controlled using a method known as doping , this manipulates the originally pure material into being abnormally impure . Similar to drugs and alcohol , once the semiconductor has reached such a low threshold voltage or low standards , it is known as a degenerate and turns tricks in the bathroom for cigarettes , or always conducts . If you want me to go into IC 's it 'll take more time but it will be done .<>Transistors are tiny electronic components that are used to control the flow of electricity in circuits. They are made of a special type of material called semiconductor material, which can conduct electricity under some conditions and not conduct electricity under other conditions. Imagine a small switch that you can use to turn the flow of water on and off. That's kind of like what a transistor does with electricity. When you want the electricity to flow through a circuit, you turn the transistor on. When you don't want the electricity to flow, you turn the transistor off. Transistors are used in all kinds of electronic devices, including computers, phones, and TVs. They are very important because they allow us to control the flow of electricity in circuits, which is necessary for making all kinds of electronic devices work. Redstone is a material in the video game Minecraft that can be used to create simple circuits. Redstone circuits work a bit like transistor circuits, in that you can use them to control the flow of electricity (or in the case of Minecraft, redstone power) in a circuit. However, redstone circuits are much simpler than transistor circuits and are not used in real-world electronic devices.<>reddit_eli5