What are the chances of recovery after cardiac arrest during lung operation?Patient is a 35-year old healthy male who went into sudden cardiac arrest during an operation on his lungs. He has been in a medically-induced coma for three weeks. He was weaned off the medications causing his unconsciousness and taken off his ventilator today. If the scans look good and the brain surgeon seems positive about his recovery, how long do you estimate until he is fully awake?<>It's it good to know that he is recovering,  and the progress you have mentioned surely indicate s that the chances of him coming back to normal like is fair to good.  Now we can never say by what time he would come to normal ,  however if  post cardiac arrest the pt was removed in a short time and the doctors are sure that no hypoxic damage to the bank has occurred , he should be back soon.  Electroencephogram is the test to check the brain activity which can be done to assess how active is the brain. Hoping I could help,  any further ref I am available Http:\/\/doctor.healthcaremagic.com\/doctors\/dr-priyank-mody\/70273<>The chances of recovery after cardiac arrest during surgery can vary widely depending on a number of factors, including the underlying cause of the cardiac arrest, the duration of the arrest, and the effectiveness of the resuscitation efforts. In general, the chances of recovery are generally better if the cardiac arrest was brief and the patient received timely and effective resuscitation.\n\nIf the patient has been in a medically-induced coma for three weeks and has now been weaned off the medications causing unconsciousness and taken off the ventilator, it is likely that his condition has stabilized. However, it is difficult to predict how long it will take for the patient to fully awaken, as the rate of recovery can vary greatly from person to person. In some cases, patients may take several weeks or even months to fully wake up, while in other cases, patients may awaken within a few days or weeks.\n\nIt is important to keep in mind that recovery from a cardiac arrest can be a slow and gradual process, and it is not uncommon for patients to experience some degree of neurological impairment or other complications. It will be important for the patient to receive ongoing medical care and rehabilitation to maximize his chances of a full recovery.<>medicine