PCOD, had miscarriage, taken follicular test. Can i conceive again?am 37 yr . i have lost my baby for 8 month 23 days during pregnancy i have pod. can i conceive again . now i am taking follicular test and result is my follicle is MSF the day of 12 ND 15. plz ans me<>Hi,The cause of your pregnancy loss is not PCOD as conception is the main problem with PCOD and also early maintenance of the pregnancy, but not a pregnancy loss in the late trimester. You can definitely conceive again if ovulation can be achieved and tubes are patent. A mature follicle measures about 18 mm. just before ovulation and sizes more than that may indicate cysts. Considering your age, I would advise you to see an expert in infertility and get further advice. Take care.<>I'm sorry to hear about your miscarriage. It can be a difficult and emotional experience, and it's natural to have concerns about conceiving again.\n\nPolycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common condition that can affect a woman's fertility. It occurs when the ovaries produce an excess of certain hormones, which can lead to irregular periods, difficulty getting pregnant, and other problems. However, it is possible to conceive with PCOS, and many women with the condition have successful pregnancies.\n\nFollicular testing is a way to track the development of the egg-containing follicles in the ovaries. The size and number of follicles can be used to assess fertility and guide treatment. In general, a mature follicle is considered to be about 18-30 mm in size. A follicle that is \"multifollicular\" or \"multiple\" (MSF) means that there are multiple follicles present.\n\nIt's difficult to say whether you will be able to conceive again without more information about your specific situation. Factors such as your age, the cause of your miscarriage, and your overall health can all affect your fertility. It's important to speak with a healthcare provider about your options and the steps you can take to try to conceive again. They can provide you with more information and guidance based on your individual circumstances.<>I'm sorry to hear about your miscarriage. It can be a difficult and emotional experience, and it's natural to have concerns about conceiving again.\n\nPolycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common condition that can affect a woman's fertility. It occurs when the ovaries produce an excess of certain hormones, which can lead to irregular periods, difficulty getting pregnant, and other problems. However, it is possible to conceive with PCOS, and many women with the condition have successful pregnancies.\n\nFollicular testing is a way to track the development of the egg-containing follicles in the ovaries. The size and number of follicles can be used to assess fertility and guide treatment. In general, a mature follicle is considered to be about 18-30 mm in size. A follicle that is \"multifollicular\" or \"multiple\" (MSF) means that there are multiple follicles present.\n\nIt's difficult to say whether you will be able to conceive again without more information about your specific situation. Factors such as your age, the cause of your miscarriage, and your overall health can all affect your fertility. It's important to speak with a healthcare provider about your options and the steps you can take to try to conceive again. They can provide you with more information and guidance based on your individual circumstances.<>medicine