Rocky Horror Show Seriously , the ending left me feeling confused and thinking acid would 've made it better , like 2001 a Space Odyssey Edit : So I watched the movie version with all your explanations in mind and it makes more sense , thanks ! Please explain like I'm five.<>Omigod I love that movie so much . ( Do n't judge me ! ) But the ending is pretty deus ex machina . I 'm not sure what part you did n't understand but the plot is actually pretty simple . Riff Raff and Magenta think the lovely and scrumptious Tim Curry has gone off the rails with all his Rocky baloney . They mutiny and yank their house ( some kind of exploration vehicle ) back to their home planet . They allow the natives to flee , and also to keep their fishnets .<>The Rocky Horror Show is a musical with a cult following that was originally performed on stage and then adapted into a film called \"The Rocky Horror Picture Show.\" It tells the story of a young couple, Brad and Janet, who get stranded in the rain and seek refuge in a castle where they encounter a strange group of characters, including a transvestite scientist named Dr. Frank-N-Furter. \nThe ending of the show can be confusing because it involves time travel, alien invasion, and the transformation of the main characters. Essentially, Dr. Frank-N-Furter reveals that he is actually an alien from the planet Transsexual in the galaxy of Transylvania, and he has been using his time machine to bring people to his castle and transform them into his own creations. \nAt the end of the show, the characters use the time machine to travel back to the present, but they are intercepted by a group of aliens who reveal that they have been manipulating the events of the show as part of a plan to take over the world. The main characters are transformed into new, superior beings and sent back to Earth to carry out the aliens' plan. \nOverall, the ending of The Rocky Horror Show can be seen as a commentary on the transformative power of art and how it can challenge and transcend societal norms and expectations. However, the show is also known for its campy and over-the-top style, and it is often seen as a celebration of individuality and self-expression.<>reddit_eli5