How do insurance companies survive disasters like the hurricanes in Florida ? The amount of damage must be in the 10\/100 's of millions , do they just have that cash ready in the bank ? Explain like I'm five.<>They do maintain fairly large liquid holdings vs. corporations of similar sizes in other sectors ( although not by comparison to a lot of tech companies like Apple , interestingly enough ) More importantly they also spread their risk through re - insurers ( insurance for insurance companies ) such that they are only on the hook for a small percentage of the total claims . Both insurers and reinsurers are also pretty careful about how much total exposure they allow themselves to any particular area ( like Florida ) and have done a lot of analysis of the risks ( like hurricanes ) so that they have a pretty accurate estimate of how much liquid cash they need to keep . Their risk models take into account much more in the way of global warming risks than do , say , the US government 's . Plus they often manage immediate cash flow by delaying payment for lower - tier premiums etc . This does n't always work , but after hundreds of years of insuring people they generally know what formulas will keep them afloat . As a last resort they can often go raise debt or equity from the public and private markets , although doing so when you 're \" under water \" ( pun intended ) can result in shareholders taking a bath ...<>\\nInsurance companies are able to survive disasters like hurricanes in Florida by having a large amount of money set aside specifically for paying out claims to policyholders who have suffered losses. This money is called a \"reserve.\" Insurance companies build up their reserves over time by setting aside a portion of the premiums they collect from policyholders.\\n\\nWhen a disaster like a hurricane occurs, insurance companies use their reserves to pay out claims to policyholders who have suffered losses as a result of the disaster. In some cases, the amount of damage caused by a disaster may be so large that it exceeds the amount of money that an insurance company has set aside in its reserves. In these cases, the insurance company may need to borrow money or raise additional funds in order to pay all of the claims it owes.\\n\\nIt's important to note that insurance companies don't just have huge amounts of cash sitting in a bank somewhere. Instead, they invest the money in a variety of financial instruments, such as stocks, bonds, and real estate, in order to earn a return on their investments. This helps them to build up their reserves and be prepared for disasters like hurricanes.<>reddit_eli5