If you arrive in a country with some sort of incorrect visa , do they just send you back home ? a Please explain like I'm five.<>Well , they will detain you in some holding area in the checkpoint , while they try to ascertain your identity - whether it 's a genuine mix - up or error , or if you are someone more sinister - like a drug mule , terrorist , or a refugee who has no actual business in this country you are in . The immigration officials may ask you some questions , and maybe run some checks with your embassy and make some calls . If it 's a harmless error , your visa gets corrected and approved , and then you get to pass on . If it requires more time , you might just have to be sleeping in the airport or train station for a few days while the things clear up . If ultimately they are dissatisfied and refuse to grant you the visa , well , you are plainly treated as an illegal immigrant and arranged for deportation \/ jail etc . ( the former is more common for genuine mistakes ) . It sounds harsh , but well , you got ta understand that legally on paper you are no different from the other \" wetbacks \" and \" boat people \" and \" border crossers \" and what - not they are getting . Moral of the story : Do n't fuck up your visa . It 's as bad as crossing borders without getting your passports checked and so on . Basically , you are seen as just going into another country illegally . Period .<>If you arrive in a country with an incorrect visa, it is possible that immigration authorities will deny you entry and send you back to your home country. It is important to make sure that you have the correct documents and visas before traveling to a new country. If you are unsure about the requirements, it is a good idea to contact the embassy or consulate of the country you plan to visit to ask about their visa requirements. It is also important to be aware of any restrictions or conditions that may be placed on your visa, such as the length of time you are allowed to stay in the country or the specific purpose of your visit.<>reddit_eli5