What is happening in my stomach when it growls from hunger ? I 'm hungry and wondering what 's going on in there . EDIT : Wow , went to work and found a whole lot of answers ! Solved ! Explain like I'm five.<>I 'm surprised that no one has given a legitimate answer . When you fast , there is a neurological reflex that causes your body to increase peristalsis ( waves of contraction of your intestines ) in your gastointestinal tract in an attempt to move any remaining substances through the system . This is called the migrating motility complex . ( URL_0 ) . These additional peristaltic waves contribute to the \" growling \" you hear when you are hungry . This is the reason that when children swallow inedible objects ( like a penny , for example ) instead of removing the object , doctors will have the child fast . This activates the migrating motility complex which pushes the object through their intestinal tract ( and out their backside ) Edit : A lot of people have been asking about where the \" sound \" itself comes from . The sound comes from the fact that the intestines are muscular tubes . When the muscles contract and then relax , it creates a vacuum . To compare it to something you might be familiar with- when you push on a whoopie cushion it makes noise , but when you release it and let it re - inflate , it makes a different sound from the air moving back into the balloon . Both of those types of noises are going on inside your intestines . Also , I apologize that this answer is n't very ELI5ish .<>When you're hungry, your stomach starts to growl because it's empty and needs food. Inside your stomach, there are muscles that help to mix and grind up the food you eat. When you don't have any food in your stomach, these muscles start to contract and make noises. This is what causes your stomach to growl.\r\n\r\nThink of your stomach as a kind of machine that helps to turn the food you eat into energy for your body. When you eat, the food goes into your stomach and is mixed up with some special juices that help to break it down. Then, the broken-down food is sent to your small intestine, where it's absorbed into your body and used to give you energy.\r\n\r\nSo, when you're hungry and your stomach growls, it's just a sign that your body needs more fuel. That's why it's important to eat regular, healthy meals to keep your stomach (and the rest of your body) happy and healthy!<>reddit_eli5