How does therapy work for Anxiety and other personality disorders ? My first appointment is today and I 'm a bit confused on how does talking help treat Anxiety , BPD , Bipolar disorder , etc . Please explain like I'm five.<>Talk therapy can often help because many people with anxiety and certain disorders have learned very bad ways of thinking over the years . And many of them do n't even realise how many bad patterns they have until someone helps them understand it . And the great thing about understanding your bad mental patterns is that once you understand them , you can start work on breaking \/ changing them . For example , some people with anxiety will also assume the worst in any given situation . Even if the worst is very very unlikely , they hyperfocus on that and then not do certain things just because something that has a very very small chance of happening might happen . A therapist can help you understand why you do this , what you are so afraid of , but also can help you look at things more realistically and can help you face your fears . With many anxiety disorders you do need to do a certain amount of bucking up and doing what makes you terrified until it does n't anymore . A therapist can help you with that because they can accompany you , help you break down the problem in little steps that you can tackle , they can make plans with you and keep you accountable for those plans . Similarly with social anxieties many people have that those bad mental pathways where they already assume someone else will think in a certain way . A therapist can help you break through that . They can also do short role - plays with you to practise interacting with people if that is what you are afraid of . I attended group therapy for a while and we had a few people who were very terrified of turning people down \/ saying no . So these people got to practise that in our group via role - plays , but they might also get the assignment from our therapist to go shopping and practise saying no . You know , if someone asks you if they can help you , say no thank you . Even those small kind of interactions can help you get more used to saying no so you can then start using it in bigger situations as well .<>Therapy is a process where people talk about their thoughts, feelings, and behaviors with a trained mental health professional. It can help people with anxiety, personality disorders, and other mental health conditions because it gives them a safe space to explore their emotions and learn coping skills. For example, if someone has anxiety, they might talk about what makes them anxious and work with the therapist to come up with strategies to manage their anxiety. If someone has borderline personality disorder, they might talk about their relationships and work on ways to communicate more effectively with others. The therapist can also teach people relaxation techniques and help them identify unhealthy patterns in their thinking.Overall, therapy can be very helpful in improving mental health and helping people live happier, healthier lives. It's important to remember that therapy is a process and it may take time to see improvement. It's also important to find a therapist that you feel comfortable talking to and that you feel understands you.<>reddit_eli5