How does extreme couponing work ? How are people able to use coupons to reduce hundreds of dollars so drastically ? Please explain like I'm five.<>a lot of time and patience . my wife coupons ( although I would n't call her extreme ) she spends about 4 hrs a week on it . she only does CVS and RiteAid , but we have walked out of both with 3 - 4 bags of shaving products , feminine products , medicines , and sometimes cokes\/2liters for cents on the dollar . Southern Savers is the site she uses that breaks all of it down and tells you exactly what coupon and exactly what product you will need to buy to get the best deals . really you have to dedicate yourself to it . research stores coupon policies and be ready to argue and defend your coupons at register . you end up with a lot of stuff for cheap , and some of the stuff you may not even need but it completes the deal , we donate those things since we are paying 10 - 50 cents an item anyway<>Sure! Extreme couponing is a way for people to save a lot of money on their groceries and other household items by using coupons. Coupons are like special discounts or deals that you can use to buy things for less money. \nHere's how it works: \n1. First, you need to find coupons. You can find coupons in the newspaper, online, or in store flyers. You can also get coupons by signing up for newsletters or loyalty programs. \n2. Next, you need to plan your shopping trip. Look at the coupons you have and decide what you want to buy. You can use the coupons to save money on the things you need. \n3. When you go shopping, you can use the coupons at the checkout. Just show the coupon to the cashier and they will scan it. The discount will be taken off the total cost of your purchase. \n4. Some people like to combine coupons with special deals or sales at the store. For example, if the store is having a sale on cereal and you have a coupon for cereal, you can use both the sale and the coupon to get an even bigger discount. \n5. Finally, you can use the money you save with coupons to buy other things you need or want. \nBy using coupons and combining them with sales, people can save a lot of money on their shopping trips. That's how extreme couponing works!<>reddit_eli5