What s the difference between a $ 500 DSLR and a $ 500 < DSLR camera ? I see DSLR cameras go from 500 - 2000 dollars . Is there a difference in the body that makes the few thousand dollars worth it ? Explain like I'm five.<>Well , most cameras come with lens , and the quality of high end lens is fantastic . As for the body , there 's often computer added features that can do things like GPS tag images . There might be improved mics and such for video . They may have larger image sensors which can allow you to capture more light . There 's autofocus and automatic light recognition . Higher ISO can allow you to take pictures in seriously low lighting . Some of the really high end cameras have focusing systems that can take in a chockload of focus points . They might have more contrast sensors , which would allow you to get better detail in darker areas . MegaPixels is n't everything , as any good photographer will tell you , but of course , there 's that too . An average DSLR might have 20 MP and great quality , but a really high end one might have the same quality and nearly double the resolution . And of course , they capture colours better too . [ Chromatic aberration ] ( URL_0 ) sucks . Some of the extreme high end cameras can take videos at 60 FPS . Most cameras use 30 FPS . Also , $ 2000 is n't the high end cameras . Well , technically , they are , but there 's even further up cameras . In particular , the [ Nikon D4 ] ( URL_1 ) at its hefty $ 6300 . For most people , though , a $ 500 DSLR is perfectly fine . The law of diminishing returns applies . The high end cameras are aimed at professions . The kind of people who use their camera to earn a living . ^(Note : this explanation assumes reasonable existing photography knowledge . In the absence of that , it can be summed up that the camera basically takes better pictures . )<>A DSLR camera is a type of camera that uses a mirror and prism system to allow you to see exactly what the camera's lens is seeing through the viewfinder. The difference between a $500 DSLR and a more expensive DSLR camera is often the quality of the components, the durability of the body, and the number and types of features that are included.\n\nFor example, a more expensive DSLR camera might have a more powerful processor, which can allow for faster performance and better image quality. It might also have a more durable body, which can be important if you plan on using the camera in rough conditions or taking it on a lot of trips. Additionally, a more expensive DSLR camera might have more advanced features, such as a higher resolution viewfinder, faster autofocus, or the ability to shoot in a wider range of lighting conditions.\n\nUltimately, whether or not a more expensive DSLR camera is worth it for you will depend on your needs and budget. If you're just starting out with photography and don't need a lot of advanced features, a $500 DSLR camera might be a good choice. But if you're a more experienced photographer or you need a camera that can handle a wide range of shooting situations, you might want to consider a more expensive model.<>reddit_eli5