Can you connect to the internet without going through an ISP ? Like could you , with sufficient funds and contacts in the networking world just connect directly to the rest of the web allowing for unlimited speeds and the only limitation to this being your hardware ? Explain like I'm five. <>With sufficient funds and contacts , sure . However , it would essentially lead to you running an ISP yourself with only one customer . It would not lead to unlimited speeds , because there is a limit to how fast a link other ISPs would be interested in giving you . Your network still needs to be linked to the other networks of the world , and the speeds you get are dependent on the speeds others allow you to connect to them at . I think you 'd have to cash in on some serious favours with your contacts to get it through , though . There 's practically no situation anywhere in the world where this would be preferrable to negotiating a deal as a customer with an existing ISP . You would have to lay down new cables anyway if you wanted to be your own ISP , and if you were going to do that , you could instead use that high - speed connection to connect to an ISP as a customer . You might not find readily available information about this on their web sites , but if the ISP deals with business customers , there 's probably a way to do it if you contact them , and tell them you 'll be paying for all the work necessary to hook you up .<>Yes, it is possible to connect to the internet without going through an ISP (Internet Service Provider). This is typically done through a direct connection to a network access point, such as a business or a government agency. These types of connections are usually very fast, since they are not limited by the bandwidth of an ISP.\\n\\nTo connect directly to the internet, you would need a device called a router, which is a piece of hardware that connects your computer or other devices to the internet. The router would be connected to a network access point, such as a business or a government agency, which would provide a connection to the internet.\\n\\nHowever, it is important to note that not everyone can just set up their own direct connection to the internet. These types of connections are typically reserved for large organizations or government agencies that need a high-speed, reliable connection to the internet.\\n\\nIn summary, it is possible to connect to the internet without going through an ISP, but it requires special equipment and a connection to a network access point, which may not be available to everyone.<>Yes, it is possible to connect to the internet without going through an ISP (Internet Service Provider). This is typically done through a direct connection to a network access point, such as a business or a government agency. These types of connections are usually very fast, since they are not limited by the bandwidth of an ISP.\\n\\nTo connect directly to the internet, you would need a device called a router, which is a piece of hardware that connects your computer or other devices to the internet. The router would be connected to a network access point, such as a business or a government agency, which would provide a connection to the internet.\\n\\nHowever, it is important to note that not everyone can just set up their own direct connection to the internet. These types of connections are typically reserved for large organizations or government agencies that need a high-speed, reliable connection to the internet.\\n\\nIn summary, it is possible to connect to the internet without going through an ISP, but it requires special equipment and a connection to a network access point, which may not be available to everyone.<>reddit_eli5