Suggest remedy for tumor in esophagusMy uncle has been diagnosed with a 7cm stomach tumour which has mets to the liver and lungs - it also looks like it may be in his oesophagus - no one is giving us a real idea on expected life expectancy - we just need an idea of what we are dealing with - he is already having trouble with swallowing and is having to cough up phleghm regularly.<>Hi, dearI have gone through your question. I can understand your concern.He has esophagus cancer with liver and lung metastasis. It is stage 4 cancer. Surgery is not useful in this stage. So treatment options are chemotherapy and radiotherapy. But it will not cure the disease. It just works as palliative therapy. Despite of all treatment prognosis remains poor. Life expectancy is not good. Sorry to say but it is fact.Consult your oncologist and plan accordingly. Hope I have answered your question, if you have any doubts then contact me at bit.ly\/Drsanghvihardik, I will be happy to answer you.Thanks for using health care magic.Wish you a very good health.<>I'm sorry to hear about your uncle's diagnosis. It's understandable that you would like to have a better understanding of his prognosis and treatment options.\n\nTreatment for a tumor in the esophagus typically depends on the type and stage of the cancer, as well as the overall health of the patient. Some options may include surgery to remove the tumor, chemotherapy to kill cancer cells, and radiation therapy to shrink the tumor. In some cases, a combination of these approaches may be recommended.\n\nIt's important to note that predicting life expectancy can be difficult, as every individual and their cancer is unique. It's important for your uncle to work closely with his healthcare team to determine the most appropriate treatment plan and to manage any symptoms he may be experiencing.\n\nIf you have any specific questions about your uncle's treatment or prognosis, I recommend speaking with his healthcare team for more information. They will be able to provide you with more detailed and personalized information based on your uncle's specific situation.<>medicine