The difference between Communism , Socialism , and Fascism They 've all always seemed so closely related in my mind , but I 've never really felt like I have known the criteria for differentiating them . Explain like I'm five.<>Communism is a far - left ideology . Communist society works by running a nation like a commune ; everyone does the best work they can and gets assigned duties , everyone gets a share of what the commune produces , everyone is equal . In a communist society , there is no money , no state , and no social classes . All the workers democratically run the means of production -- the factories , mills , and mines . The idea as prescribed by Karl Marx is \" from each according to his ability , to each according to his need \" -- everyone does the best they can for the country , and the country will give everyone everything they need . There has never been a communist country . There have been countries that * pursued * communism , and based their policy on related ideas , like Cuba , the USSR , China , and East Germany . But they did not become , or consider themselves to be , communist . Socialism is kind of a vague word ; so many people have used it to mean different things over time , and there are many approaches and variations on its core . The most common usage is for a country practicing * state capitalism * while implementing some communist ideals -- the people democratically controlling a government that controls the means of production , which operate in a capitalistic manner , for example . But like I said , it can mean a lot of things and it 's difficult to pin down the exact image of a socialist nation . Fascism is a whole other animal . Fascism is a far - right ideology commonly posed as the * opposite * of communism ; it arose as a response to communism . Fascism deals less with economics , and more with national philosophy and identity . The heart of fascism is the idea of * national strength * ; communism was seen to be too internationalist and to ' weaken ' a nation by diluting it , so fascism formed as an ideology advocating a strict local focus and a devotion to authoritarianism . Fascist nations are always led by a single very strong dictator , usually a general , with lower - ranking generals below him , and lower - ranking colonels below those , and so on , in a rigid structure of absolute authority . The state is the absolute focus of all citizens ; all citizens exist to strengthen and defend the state . Fascism is ferociously anti - communist , and communism is ferociously anti - fascist . You can think of it , very loosely , like this : if communism is running the nation like a big hippie commune , fascism is like running the country like a big army . Fascist societies include Franco 's Spain , Mussolini 's Italy , and Hitler 's Germany .<>Communism, socialism, and fascism are all different political ideologies that have been influential in various parts of the world. Here's a simple explanation of the differences between them:\n\nCommunism is a political ideology that advocates for the creation of a classless society in which resources are shared equally and everyone works towards the common good. Under communism, the means of production (such as factories, farms, and mines) are owned and controlled by the community as a whole, rather than by individual people or businesses.\n\nSocialism is a political ideology that advocates for the creation of a society in which resources are shared more equally and the government plays a larger role in regulating the economy. Under socialism, the means of production may be owned and controlled by the government, rather than by private individuals or businesses.\n\nFascism is a political ideology that emphasizes the importance of national unity, strength, and pride, and often involves the suppression of dissent and the glorification of war and violence. Fascism often involves the creation of a dictatorship in which one person or group has absolute power.\n\nIn summary, communism and socialism both involve the idea of sharing resources more equally and having a larger role for the government in the economy, while fascism involves the suppression of dissent and the glorification of violence.<>reddit_eli5