Global Warming I do n't really get it , someone please simplify it for me . Someone also told me recently that it means the winters will get colder too . How ? Please explain like I'm five.<>> Someone also told me recently that it means the winters will get colder too . How ? It 's complex ( as in very , very complex ) and depends on the location . This is why \" climate change \" is possibly a more apt term than \" global warming \" . Warming on the surface is not uniform across the planet or across seasons . Proportionally , water vapor in the atmosphere contributes naturally much more to the total greenhouse effect ( explained by Cross_Keynesian ) than does carbon dioxide ( produced by burning fossil fuels ) . There are massive amounts of water in the air and it circulates relatively fast and in complex patterns . Adding to the complexity is the fact that water vapor is a greenhouse gas , but cloud cover can also have the opposite effect by reflecting sun 's radiation back to space instead of allowing it to the surface . Overall warming makes the oceans warmer and makes for more evaporation of water into the air , which makes for both more water vapor and more clouds . One of the big debates about climate change has been whether this feedback mechanism on adding carbon dioxide counteracts the greenhouse effect of the carbon dioxide , or actually makes it worse . At least some of the early predictions of a very strong positive feedback on warming have not turned out to be accurate , otherwise we 'd be basically fried already .<>Global warming refers to the long-term warming of the planet due to an increase in the Earth's average surface temperature. This warming is caused by the release of gases like carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere, which trap heat from the sun and cause the Earth's temperature to rise. This process is sometimes referred to as the \"greenhouse effect.\"It's true that global warming can have some strange and unexpected effects on the weather. For example, in some parts of the world, global warming might cause winters to be colder. This is because warming can cause the jet stream, which is a fast-moving river of air high in the atmosphere, to change its path. When the jet stream changes its path, it can bring cold air to places that are normally warmer, and warm air to places that are normally colder.So while global warming might cause some parts of the world to have colder winters, it is also causing other parts of the world to have much hotter summers, more frequent heatwaves, and more intense and frequent extreme weather events like hurricanes and floods. Overall, the long-term trend is for the planet to continue to get warmer.<>reddit_eli5