Why is it so hard to take a picture of a sunset ? Why can I never capture the beauty of a sunset or sunrise ? And why does it sometimes just turn into a fuzzy vertical black line ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Many possble reasons , but mostly , too much contrast . The sun is much , much brighter than the sky surrounding it . If the camera tries to get the sun right , everything else will be too dark . If it tries to get the sky right , the sun will be overblown . Solutions : graduated filters , manual exposure , HDR , multiple exposures . Also , you have to turn off automatic white balance , or the camera will try to get all the beautiful color nuances to a dull average gray . The smaller your camera sensor is , the harder it has to work to get all that contrast . Phone sensors are usually very , very small compared to \" real \" cameras . As for the fuzzy vertical line , I 've never heard of this . Maybe your camera 's sensor is defective or really overwhelmed by the sun 's light . EDIT : Set your white balance to sunset if you can . If you have a fully automatic basic camera that has focus \/ exposure - lock , turn around and point the camera at the sky * opposite to the sun * . Press the shutter half - way and hold it . If you have focus lock , you 'll hear a beep . Keep your finger on the shutter button and turn around to frame your sunrise \/ sunset . Press the shutter all the way down .<>Taking a picture of a sunset can be challenging because the sunlight is very bright and the sky is often very colorful, which can make it difficult for a camera to get the exposure right. This can lead to pictures that are too bright or too dark, or that don't capture all of the colors in the sky. Additionally, the light from the sun can cause glare, which can make it hard to see details in the picture. Sometimes, a sunset or sunrise can turn into a fuzzy vertical line in a picture if the camera is not focused properly. This can happen if the camera is not pointed directly at the sun, or if the focus setting on the camera is not set correctly. To take a better picture of a sunset or sunrise, try using a tripod to keep the camera steady, and experiment with different exposure and focus settings to see what works best. It can also be helpful to use a filter to reduce glare and protect the camera lens from the bright sunlight.<>reddit_eli5