What is defragmenting ? ( in relation to software ) Would like to know this because I 'm told it helps improve processing speed Explain like I'm five.<>Say that you have a hard drive with lots of files , and it fills up . So you decide to delete some of those files . Now there 's free space on your hard drive , but it 's not consecutive , since the files you 've deleted were n't necessarily adjacent to each other . So now if you want to create a new file that will use up the free space , it will have to be split into several pieces , because there is n't enough consecutive space on the disk ( do n't worry , your file system takes care of that ) . When a file is split like that , we say it is fragmented , and it takes longer to read it and write to it . Defragmentation moves the files around the disk so that they will be stored consecutively ( and free space will be consecutive as well ) , and access to them will be faster .<>Defragmenting is a process that rearranges the files and data on your computer's hard drive so that it can be accessed more efficiently. Think of it like organizing a messy desk. When your desk is cluttered, it can be hard to find things and it takes longer to get things done. But if you take the time to organize your desk, you can find things more easily and work more efficiently.\r\n\r\nDefragmenting your computer's hard drive works in a similar way. When you save and delete files, the data can get scattered around the hard drive. This makes it harder for your computer to access the data it needs, which can slow down your computer. Defragmenting rearranges the data on your hard drive so that it's all stored in one place, making it easier for your computer to access the data it needs and run more efficiently.\r\n\r\nDefragmenting your hard drive can be a helpful way to improve the speed and performance of your computer, but it's not always necessary. If you use your computer mostly for basic tasks like browsing the web or checking email, you may not need to defragment very often. But if you use your computer for more demanding tasks like video editing or gaming, you may want to defragment your hard drive more often to keep it running smoothly.<>reddit_eli5