Checking the math on a Truth-in-Lending Disclosure<>As your question is written now, it looks like you have a typo.  Your stated APR is 5.542% = 0.05542, not 0.005542 as you've written.  I ran the numbers that you gave (accounting for the typo) through the formula at Wikipedia and got $849.2528 \/ month, which will round to $849.25 for most payments.  That doesn't match the number that you computed or the number on your TIL. (Maybe you also miskeyed the result of your calculation?) I agree that it's unlikely that this is just a calculation error by the mortgage company, although I wouldn't completely rule it out.  Are you paying anything else like a property tax escrow?  I didn't pull a blank TIL form to see what might go into the monthly payment line that you showed, but in many cases you do pay more than just principle and interest each month. (Not sure if that gets reflected at that point on the form though.)<>The Truth-in-Lending Disclosure is a document that is required by law to be provided to borrowers when they are obtaining a loan. It is intended to provide borrowers with clear and accurate information about the terms of their loan, including the annual percentage rate (APR), the finance charge, and the total amount of the loan.To calculate the APR, you will need to know the following information:The interest rate on the loanThe number of payments you will make over the life of the loanThe amount of each paymentAny fees or charges that are being added to the loan (such as origination fees or closing costs)To calculate the finance charge, you will need to know the following information:The interest rate on the loanThe number of payments you will make over the life of the loanThe amount of each paymentAny fees or charges that are being added to the loan (such as origination fees or closing costs)To calculate the total amount of the loan, you will need to know the following information:The principal amount of the loan (the amount you are borrowing)The finance charge (as calculated above)There are various formulas and methods that can be used to calculate the APR, finance charge, and total amount of the loan. If you have access to a financial calculator or spreadsheet software, you may be able to use these tools to perform the calculations. Alternatively, you can use an online calculator or consult with a financial professional for assistance. It's important to carefully review and understand the terms of your loan, so that you can make informed decisions about your financial situation.<>finance