Fundamentally , what is mass ? If you want go even further how are the particles that have no mass ? Explain like I'm five. <>There are two types of mass , which as far as we know turn out , for reasons unknown , to be exactly the same : - Gravitational mass is the quantity that determines how much gravity something has . According to general relativity , gravity is caused by objects trying to take the shortest possible path through spacetime : if their route through spacetime is bent , their path is altered , and we observe that as gravity . The more massive something is , the more it bends spacetime , and so the more gravity it exerts . Objects with no mass do n't bend spacetime , and so do n't gravitationally attract other objects ( although they can be attracted by objects with mass ) . ( edit - correction : objects with no rest mass still bend spacetime because they have energy ) - Inertial mass is the measure of how resistant an object is to acceleration . Heavier objects require more energy to accelerate to the same speed than a lighter object would . In a vacuum , massless objects travel at the speed of light without any force acting on them ( although it 's possible for objects with mass to travel faster than massless objects in certain mediums ) . There 's no known fundamental reason why these two masses end up being the same thing , as they 're two entirely different concepts . However , the fact that they are the same is one of the fundamental facts which general relativity relies on . Fundamentally , mass ( both gravitational and inertial ) comes from two places . First , via E = mc^2 , you have the mass resulting from the energy that binds the smaller particles together ( e.g , gluons binding quarks together in a proton ) . For constituent particles like protons , neutrons , or atoms , this is the source of the vast majority of mass . Second , you have the mass of a particle resulting from its interaction with the Higgs field . The Higgs field is a field that permeates the entire universe and interacts with particles proportional to their mass : particles with a lot of mass interact with the Higgs field a lot , and particles with no mass do n't interact with it at all . This interaction is mediated by the Higgs Boson .<>Mass is a measure of how much matter is in an object. It is the amount of stuff that makes up something. The more mass something has, the more it weighs.\\n\\nParticles that have no mass are called massless particles. These particles can still have other properties, such as energy and momentum, but they do not have mass. Examples of massless particles include photons, which are particles of light, and gluons, which are particles that hold quarks together to form protons and neutrons.\\n\\nHope that helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5