How to know precisely when a SWIFT is issued by a bank?<>I think technically the MIR includes the date of issuance but not the time, see the references here. What you have there looks like a timestamp followed by the MIR. If you look at this example from IBM they also show the input time as a separate field.<>A SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) is a network that enables financial institutions around the world to send and receive information about financial transactions in a secure and standardized format. When a bank issues a SWIFT, it is sending a message through the SWIFT network to another financial institution, typically for the purpose of initiating a financial transaction.To determine the precise time that a SWIFT was issued by a bank, you will need to contact the bank that issued the SWIFT or check the records or systems that the bank uses to track its SWIFT messages. The bank should be able to provide you with the date and time that the SWIFT was issued. Alternatively, you may be able to determine the date and time of the SWIFT by examining the message itself, as it should include information about the date and time that it was sent.","A SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) message is a standardized message that is used to securely transmit information and instructions between financial institutions. The exact time that a SWIFT message is issued by a bank will depend on the specific processes and procedures in place at that bank. In general, however, you can expect a SWIFT message to be issued as soon as the bank has completed the necessary internal checks and approvals to send the message.There are a few ways you can try to determine when a SWIFT message was issued by a bank:Contact the issuing bank: If you have a relationship with the bank that issued the SWIFT message, you may be able to contact them directly to inquire about the timing of the message.Check the SWIFT message itself: SWIFT messages include a number of standard fields that can provide information about when the message was issued. For example, the \"Creation Date\" field indicates the date and time that the message was created, and the \"Validity Period\" field indicates the period of time during which the message is considered valid.Check with the receiving bank: If you are the recipient of the SWIFT message, you may be able to check with the bank that received the message to see when it was received. This will not provide an exact time that the message was issued, but it can give you a general idea of when it was sent.It's important to note that the timing of a SWIFT message may not always be precise, as there may be delays or other factors that can affect the delivery of the message. If you need to know the precise timing of a SWIFT message, it may be necessary to contact the issuing bank directly to inquire about the specific details.<>finance