Why is n't getting checked for cancerous tumors , or tumors in general , a routine process ? I feel like tumors are only discovered when the patient feels as if something is wrong , and by then it is usually too late to take effective action . Please explain like I'm five.<>The problem is that there are very many downsides to routine checks . Too many downsides , in fact . First of all , we do not have the resources to preform routine checks on everybody . In many places , there are already long waiting lists when people need certain types of scans or care . If we tie up our limited amount of scanning equipment and personnel that can use these machines and interpret the results with millions of people who do n't even need them , the waiting lists will only get longer and longer . Secondly , body scans are not magic . They can detect if there are irregularities in your body . They can not immediately detect whether this irregularity is something to be concerned about or not . Most of us have irregularities in our bodies that are absolutely nothing to worry about , just a result of how we are n't perfect beings and do n't grow perfectly . If everybody gets routinely scanned , all of these irregularities are going to pop up and doctors will pretty much be obligated to investigate them further . Even though 99 % of them are absolutely not any danger to you . That means more tests ( so again , more strain on our limited resources ) and also means more stress Which brings me to point three : quality of life . Basically , routine scans do not improve quality of life . In rare rare rare rare exceedingly rare cases , they might detect something slightly earlier than it would otherwise have been detected . In most cases it is going to detect harmless irregularities , which will lead to people having to undergo more ( and sometimes painful testing ) , which they will have to wait longer for due to the longer wait lists , which all accumulates in a huge increase in stress . All to tell you something they knew already , namely that there is nothing wrong with you . Basically , the very marginal benefits of a system like this do not outweigh the much more common adverse effects ( all the extra stress and pain of tests that people will experience and the added wait time to everybody else who * does * need these tests and might be in a worst position due to the long wait ) , so we do n't do it .<>There are a few reasons why getting checked for cancerous tumors is not a routine process.One reason is that not all tumors are cancerous. There are many types of tumors, and some of them are benign, which means they are not cancerous and do not spread to other parts of the body. These benign tumors are not usually a threat to a person's health and may not need to be treated.Another reason is that getting checked for cancer can be expensive and time-consuming. Some cancer screening tests, such as mammograms or colonoscopies, require specialized equipment and trained medical professionals to perform them. These tests can also be uncomfortable or painful for some people. Because of this, they are not done routinely on everyone, but only recommended for certain groups of people who are at higher risk of developing certain types of cancer.Finally, it is not always possible to detect cancer early, even with screening tests. Some types of cancer do not cause any symptoms until they have already grown and spread, making them harder to treat. However, if you have any symptoms that concern you or if you are at higher risk of developing cancer, it is important to talk to your doctor about your concerns and discuss whether you should get checked.<>There are a few reasons why getting checked for cancerous tumors is not a routine process.One reason is that not all tumors are cancerous. There are many types of tumors, and some of them are benign, which means they are not cancerous and do not spread to other parts of the body. These benign tumors are not usually a threat to a person's health and may not need to be treated.Another reason is that getting checked for cancer can be expensive and time-consuming. Some cancer screening tests, such as mammograms or colonoscopies, require specialized equipment and trained medical professionals to perform them. These tests can also be uncomfortable or painful for some people. Because of this, they are not done routinely on everyone, but only recommended for certain groups of people who are at higher risk of developing certain types of cancer.Finally, it is not always possible to detect cancer early, even with screening tests. Some types of cancer do not cause any symptoms until they have already grown and spread, making them harder to treat. However, if you have any symptoms that concern you or if you are at higher risk of developing cancer, it is important to talk to your doctor about your concerns and discuss whether you should get checked.<>reddit_eli5