Total price of (AAPL option strike price + option cost) decreases with strike price. Why?<>Think about it this way. If the strike price is $200, and cost of the option is $0.05. $200 + $0.05 is $200.05. That does not mean that the price of buying the option is more. Neither is the option writer going to pay you $70 to buy the contract.  When you are buying options, you can only have a limited downside and that is the premium that you pay for it.  In case of the $115 contract, your total loss could be a maximum of $19.3.  In case of the $130 contract, your total loss could be a maximum of $9.3. This is due to the fact that the chances of AAPL going to hit $130 is less than the chance of AAPL hitting $115. Therefore, option writers offer the lower probability contracts at a lower price.  Long story short, you do not pay for the Strike price. You only pay the premium and that premium keeps getting lower with and increase in Strike price(Or decrease if it is a put option). Strike price is just a number that you expect the stock or index to break. I would suggest you to read up a little more on pricing from here<>The total price of an option (strike price + option cost) decreases with the strike price because the option's intrinsic value decreases as the strike price increases.Intrinsic value is the amount by which an option is in-the-money, which is the difference between the underlying asset's current market price and the option's strike price. For example, if a call option has a strike price of $100 and the underlying asset is trading at $110, the intrinsic value of the option is $10. The option's extrinsic value, also known as time value, is the amount by which the option's total price exceeds its intrinsic value.As the strike price increases, the intrinsic value of the option decreases because the option is less likely to end up in-the-money. This means that the option's total price (strike price + option cost) will also decrease because the extrinsic value of the option makes up a larger portion of the option's total price.In general, the total price of an option is made up of its intrinsic value and extrinsic value. The intrinsic value represents the option's inherent value, while the extrinsic value represents the option's time value and the probability that the option will end up in-the-money. The total price of an option will fluctuate based on a variety of factors, including the underlying asset's price, the option's expiration date, and the option's strike price.","The total price of an option (strike price + option cost) decreases as the strike price decreases because the option has more intrinsic value when the strike price is lower. Intrinsic value is the difference between the strike price of the option and the current market price of the underlying asset. For example, if the market price of a stock is $100 and the strike price of a call option on that stock is $90, then the intrinsic value of the option is $10 ($100 market price - $90 strike price). This means that the option is already worth at least $10, regardless of whether it is exercised or not.On the other hand, if the strike price of the option is higher, then the intrinsic value of the option is lower. For example, if the strike price of the option is $110, then the intrinsic value is only $0 ($100 market price - $110 strike price). In this case, the option would only have value if the market price of the underlying asset increased above the strike price before the option expired.Because the intrinsic value of an option is an important component of its total price, options with lower strike prices tend to be more expensive than options with higher strike prices. This is why the total price of an option (strike price + option cost) decreases as the strike price decreases.<>finance