Would it be possible to implement universal healthcare by state ? Since some states like California have equivalent population and GDP of some countries with universal healthcare , would it be possible to implement it by state rather than the United States as a whole ? Explain like I'm five. <>Sure . That 's what Canada does . Both Vermont and Colorado have said they 're looking into it , at some point in the recent past . I think that shows that it is possible to some degree , and experts have at least toyed with the idea . I imagine state taxes will go up by a bit , but I think people will be fine with it eventually , because you would n't have to pay insurance premiums anymore ( it 's effectively paid for through the taxes ) . I moved from US to NZ . In US , I had private insurance from work . In NZ , I have universal public healthcare . I earn about the same in NZ as what I earned in US , but I took more money home , because my taxes in NZ is less than what my taxes plus premiums were in US .<>Universal healthcare is a type of healthcare system where everyone has access to the medical care they need, regardless of their ability to pay. In the United States, some states have tried to implement universal healthcare by creating their own state-specific programs.\\n\\nHowever, implementing universal healthcare at the state level can be difficult because healthcare is a complex and expensive system that involves many different organizations and stakeholders, such as hospitals, doctors, insurance companies, and the government. Creating a universal healthcare system requires a lot of planning and coordination to make sure that everyone has access to the medical care they need, and that the system is financially sustainable.\\n\\nImplementing universal healthcare at the national level, rather than just at the state level, may be a more efficient way to provide healthcare for everyone. This is because a national healthcare system would be able to pool resources and negotiate with healthcare providers on a larger scale, which could help to reduce costs and improve access to care.<>reddit_eli5