What is so special about Tesla cars ? I understand large companies see them as a huge threat . What makes them so special and why are n't they more mainstream if they are so great ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Tesla make all - electric cars . But what really sets them apart is that they 're not the \" hippy \" electric cars that most companies have been making , but rather something sporty that has enough luxury to compete with BMW or Lexus ( and a price tag to match ) . One of the big shakeups is that they sell directly to consumers rather than going through dealers .<>Tesla cars are special because they are electric vehicles (EVs). This means that instead of using gasoline to make the car move, they use electricity. Some people like this because it is better for the environment - burning gasoline creates pollution, but electricity can come from many different sources, including wind and solar power, which do not create pollution. Another thing that is special about Tesla cars is that they are very fast and powerful. They can go from 0 to 60 mph in just a few seconds, which is faster than most other cars. Lastly, Tesla cars have lots of high-tech features, like a big touch screen in the center of the dashboard that you can use to control many different things about the car, like the music and the temperature. Tesla cars are not more mainstream yet because they are still quite expensive and not everyone can afford to buy one. However, more and more people are starting to buy electric cars, so they are becoming more popular.<>Tesla cars are special because they are electric vehicles (EVs). This means that instead of using gasoline to make the car move, they use electricity. Some people like this because it is better for the environment - burning gasoline creates pollution, but electricity can come from many different sources, including wind and solar power, which do not create pollution. Another thing that is special about Tesla cars is that they are very fast and powerful. They can go from 0 to 60 mph in just a few seconds, which is faster than most other cars. Lastly, Tesla cars have lots of high-tech features, like a big touch screen in the center of the dashboard that you can use to control many different things about the car, like the music and the temperature. Tesla cars are not more mainstream yet because they are still quite expensive and not everyone can afford to buy one. However, more and more people are starting to buy electric cars, so they are becoming more popular.<>reddit_eli5