how did the first wealthy humans become wealthy ? Let 's say the first 1000 modern humans are hunting and gathering everyday . How did one guy become richer and start offering jobs , payment , etc ? What made him so special ? Please explain like I'm five.<>There are a number of political theories on this . Locke would say that the first wealthy human earned his fortune through labour and intelligence , carving off a piece of the land and improving it through the generations such that it began to supply more value than he needed . Rousseau would say that the first wealthy man was the man who convinced others that he could ' own ' land . Prior to that , humanity lived in a state of noble savagery , where all men were afforded what their strength could win them . Marx would say that the first wealthy man was a soldier , who beat and enslaved a group of people to make the first poor people . The truth is probably somewhere in between all of these , or some other as yet unknown theory .<>The first wealthy humans likely became wealthy through a combination of luck, hard work, and being in the right place at the right time. For example, let's say that one of the first 1000 modern humans discovered a new source of food, like a field full of ripe berries or a river full of fish. This person might have been able to gather more food than they needed, and they could have traded or sold the excess to other people in exchange for things they needed or wanted. \nOver time, this person might have become known as someone who had a lot of food, and others might have wanted to trade with them or work for them in order to get some of that food. This could have given the person more resources, which they could have used to do things like buy tools or hire others to work for them. \nAnother way that someone might have become wealthy was by inventing or discovering something new that was valuable to others. For example, if someone invented a new tool or technique that made it easier to hunt or gather food, they might have been able to trade or sell that invention to others in exchange for resources. \nUltimately, there are many factors that could have contributed to the first wealthy humans becoming wealthy, and it likely varied from person to person. Some people might have had natural talents or abilities that helped them succeed, while others might have had to work harder or be more creative in order to achieve their wealth.<>The first wealthy humans likely became wealthy through a combination of luck, hard work, and being in the right place at the right time. For example, let's say that one of the first 1000 modern humans discovered a new source of food, like a field full of ripe berries or a river full of fish. This person might have been able to gather more food than they needed, and they could have traded or sold the excess to other people in exchange for things they needed or wanted. \nOver time, this person might have become known as someone who had a lot of food, and others might have wanted to trade with them or work for them in order to get some of that food. This could have given the person more resources, which they could have used to do things like buy tools or hire others to work for them. \nAnother way that someone might have become wealthy was by inventing or discovering something new that was valuable to others. For example, if someone invented a new tool or technique that made it easier to hunt or gather food, they might have been able to trade or sell that invention to others in exchange for resources. \nUltimately, there are many factors that could have contributed to the first wealthy humans becoming wealthy, and it likely varied from person to person. Some people might have had natural talents or abilities that helped them succeed, while others might have had to work harder or be more creative in order to achieve their wealth.<>reddit_eli5