What goes through an autistic person 's mind when they are on a higher spectrum of autism ? I am simply curious because i have two autistic cousins . Please explain like I'm five.<>Despite several specialists I still do n't know exactly where I sit on the spectrum , a somewhat lower functioning aspergers maybe . To be honest most of the times the thoughts inside your own head become more interesting and vivid than the real world . Sometimes at a cost of control with faculties . For me it 's speech . I can think things extremely fast and make leaps of logic in a very holistic way . Ask me to tell you about it or write it down and it 's very , very difficult . One of the hardest things is communication with other people . Waiting for them to talk , making sure they have finished talking and then beginning to reply only to have them cut you off mid - sentence because they \" know \" what you were going to say next . It is very frustrating . I have a recurring ' dream ' ( read nightmare ) where I feel as though I am a droplet of water that is being squeezed up through the stalk of a plant . It is a complete override of all my senses , so much so that I want to withdraw and cut myself off from all external stimuli . Being in groups of people is the hardest as it is almost impossible for me to focus on one thing . If multiple people are talking at once I hear and process nothing . I carry a little chain in my pocket which I use to reattach focus when overwhelmed , I pass the links through my fingers in a rhythmic fashion and that helps to calm my mind . I have quite a twisted sense of humor and rarely understand jokes made by other people . I have to get people to explain their jokes so often that people no longer crack them around me . TL : DR The mind is much more organised and better functioning than the body , I prefer my own company to others as they are boring . Too much input is confusing but any single problem is a piece of cake .<>People with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) experience the world differently than people who do not have ASD. They may have difficulty understanding and expressing their own emotions and the emotions of others. They may also have trouble communicating with others and may engage in repetitive behaviors. It's important to remember that each person with ASD is unique and will have their own thoughts, feelings, and experiences. It's not possible for me to know exactly what goes through the mind of an autistic person, but I can try to explain it in a way that might be easier to understand. Imagine that you are standing on a busy street and there are lots of cars driving by, honking their horns and making lots of noise. Now imagine that instead of just one street, you are standing in the middle of a city with lots of streets and lots of cars. It might be overwhelming and difficult to focus on just one thing. That's kind of how it might feel for someone with ASD when they are in a busy place with a lot of people talking and making noise. It might be hard for them to focus on just one thing and they might feel overwhelmed. It's also important to remember that people with ASD are just like anyone else. They have their own interests, passions, and feelings. They may just have a harder time expressing them or understanding the emotions of others.<>reddit_eli5