Q. I took plan B and had dark brown spotting with cramping and bloating. Is it due to Plan B?Hello doctor,I took Plan B pills 34 hours after intercourse and one week later I had dark brown spotting. Then, I started having a red bleed during the week of my period, but it was not heavy. Now towards the end of my period, it is very light. I have period cramping and bloating. Is this because of Plan B or could I be pregnant?<>Hello. You have experienced a very normal behavior of bleeding patterns after Plan B usage. The bleeding ideally starts after one week and starts with scanty, then the flow increases and then decreases again. This is a normal endometrium shedding pattern after Plan B. You are unlikely to be pregnant now after your periods and bleeding. Just likely that your next menses may be delayed or earlier and maybe heavy, this would be because of Plan B, so just maintain a menstrual calendar for the next three months. Cramping and bloating shall subside after your period as well.<>It is possible that the spotting and other symptoms you are experiencing could be a side effect of taking Plan B. Plan B is a type of emergency contraception that can be used to prevent pregnancy after unprotected sex or contraceptive failure. It is generally effective at preventing pregnancy when taken as directed, but like any medication, it can have side effects.\n\nSpotting, cramping, and bloating are all listed as possible side effects of Plan B. These side effects usually go away on their own within a few days, but if they persist or are severe, you should speak with a healthcare provider.\n\nIt is also possible that the spotting and other symptoms you are experiencing could be due to something else, such as a change in your menstrual cycle or a possible pregnancy. If you are concerned about the possibility of pregnancy, it is important to take a pregnancy test to confirm whether or not you are pregnant. If you are pregnant, it is important to speak with a healthcare provider as soon as possible to discuss your options.<>medicine