How does data transmission takes place over WiFi ? I also want to know how does it * * differ * * from other wireless technologies like Bluetooth , Infrared etc . Explain like I'm five.<>The simplest explanation of transfering data over radio is to treat radio signals as on \/ off impulses . You send a radio signal at the frequency that the reciever listens to , and switches it on and off at intervals . It would be a bit like Morse code , a certain series of on : s and off : s would mean different things . Let 's say on = 1 and off = 0 , so a series of on : s and off : s could be represented like this : 10001110111001 , 1001101111011 , 0110011110 . Now let 's say we read these 8 at a time , and call that a \" Byte \" , and call each individual number a \" bit \" . 00000000 would be interpreted in one way , 00000001 in another , and so on . Some represents letters , some represent numbers , etc . Now that is very basic . There are lot 's of different varieties , and most are more complex . For example , you can use varying levels of signal strengths and assign a representation in series of bits for each one , but that 's rare since background radiation ( radio waves from microwave ovens , stars , etc ) would easily disturb that , like how it can be hard to hear others in a crowd with plenty of people shouting , at variying strength . It is more common to use on \/ off pulses . However , it 's still not as simple as just on \/ off . There are error correction in there , and the transfered data is split into packets before being sent , and those packets have \" metadata \" ( extra information about what 's sent ) , and there are different methods to interpret the incoming radio signals to see when it should be on and when it should be off , etc ... We also have the problem of different devices sending data at once . It 's pretty much the same as multiple people talking at once . There are usually schemes for giving each person certain amount of time to send data before it 's somebody else 's turn to send data . Example : We have person A , B and C. They all want to send data . Here 's a basic timeline that shows who sends when : |A , B , C , A , B , C|A , B , C , A , B , C|A , B , C , A , B , C| - the | lines represent when there 's a new second , for a 3 seconds long period , so each person in that timeline got 1\/6 of a second at a time to send data before it 's somebody else 's turn , and they got two opportunities to send data per second . Infrared is usually very basic , and is just an infrared light turning on and off , and there 's an IR light sensor that generates on \/ off pulses when it 's hit . These can be used with little need for extra overhead , there are not much noise or need to do advanced math on the signal . WiFi is mostly used to create computer networks without wires . There are varying modes for it , like the ordinary one where you have a regular network with a router . The router is then an access point that everybody connects to . There 's also ad - hoc , and then there are no central point , anybody can connect to anybody , and even to several people at once . Bluetooth is designed to be used between devices . It 's a bit like WiFi , but the protocols is different . It has built - in support for sending audio to headsets , etc . WiFi do n't have that , it pretty much just routes network traffic . ---- Is that enough ?<>Sure! Here's an explanation of how data transmission over WiFi works: Imagine you have a computer and you want to send a message to your friend's computer. To do this, you can use a technology called WiFi. WiFi works by sending messages through the air, just like how you can talk to your friend by shouting across the room. To send the message, your computer sends it to a device called a router, which is connected to the internet. The router then sends the message through the air to your friend's computer. Your friend's computer receives the message and is able to read it because it knows how to speak the same \"language\" as your computer. Bluetooth and infrared are similar to WiFi in that they also allow devices to communicate wirelessly. However, they have some differences: Bluetooth has a shorter range than WiFi and is typically used to connect devices that are close to each other, like a phone to a speaker or a mouse to a computer. Infrared is a type of light that is not visible to the human eye. It is often used for short-range communication, like a TV remote control. I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5