How does one start to create a new language ? Like english . All of a sudden did one guy decide he wanted a new language ? Then how the hell did he do it ? Explain like I'm five.<>Let 's separate two things ; natural Languages like English and Russian and Chinese , and Constructed languages like Tolkein 's Elvish , Star Trek 's Klingon and whatever it was they spoke in Avatar . The origins of natural languages go back thousands of years - the dawn of mankind . These original languages would have been forms of grunts , whistles , clicks - as long as you can express something to the other caveman , it 'll work . There are many theories on what prompted humans to make these sounds - * bow wow * suggests we mimicked animals to express to others in the group which animals were around . * Yo he ho * suggests we made rhythmic grunts as we worked ( lifting rocks , carrying carcasses ) that helped us work as a team , while the theory of * pooh pooh * suggests our languages started as a series of shrieks expressing fear , surprise or pain . Over the millennia , communication between two people would improve to help clarify the information being expressed . \" ARGH ! \" \" ARGH ? \" \" Yes , ARGH ! Here ! In my leg ! \" \" ohhh , ARGH ! Yes , I understand ARGH ! I had ARGH sometimepast when I stepped on that tssssst . \" Over time , ARGH would become the word \" pain \" and \" tsssst \" would become either Thorn , stone or scorpion , depending on where in the world these people were . As tribes grow , people spread out . They encompass new situations and new objects and they need new terms for them . They develop new ways of hunting , of building , of cooking and need new terminology , so the whole vocabulary starts to grow . Eventually you start getting grammar , not only demanding word order ( \" me love you \" , not \" me you love \" ) or complex indicators to show the relationships between the things being talked about ( I , me , my , mine , myself - all meaning the same person . ) Of course , people wo n't always agree . You say \" me \" but I say \" mnie \" , I think it 's a better sound . So we 'll have a fight , I 'll pick up my stuff and sulk off to the other side of the mountain where I 'll have kids and teach them that \" mnie \" is good and people who say \" me \" are idiots . Languages divide , split apart and grow into new versions . Maybe 200 years later , my great - great - grandkids come back over the mountain and start mixing with their cousins again , with the next generation forming a new , third language that 's a hybrid of its two parents . Wars , religions , political shifts will see countries forcing their own languages on the people under their control , uniting them under one tongue . They 'll then go off and conquer another country , and force that language on them too . If they 're successful they 'll kill off that invaded language . If they 're unsuccessful they 'll form a hybrid , where the people speak Language A in one situation ( down the pub , at home , on the farm ) but speak Language B somewhere else ( in court , at school , in church ) . In that way , English is a mix of Old German , Old Norse , Middle French , Church Latin and a smattering of Greek , all depending on what nation or religion was dominating the British Isles at the time - plus all the odd terms for foreign inventions that we liked and stole such as algebra , mattress and cosmonaut . Natural languages are in a constant state of flux - pick up a book from 50 years ago and you can tell it 's not \" new \" . Read a 100 year old book and you wo n't see them using the word \" hello \" very often ; 200 years back and the word \" tomorrow \" does n't exist . And we have n't even touched all the thees and thous yet . Some countries , like France , will have a government - approved establishment whose job is to regulate the language ; to fix the weird bits and ban people from adding unapproved new words . But they 're not very efficient , and very often they cause more problems than they solve . Because natural languages grow by social consensus , they 're normally filled with all sorts of oddities and inconsistencies . When that happens , linguists with impressive beards get stressed and decide \" Zer must be ein better vay ! \" They sit down , look at the essentials of a language ( nouns , verbs , pronouns and tenses ) and start building . They 'll decide what sounds they like - s and v are in , for example , but the hacking - up - phlegm noise is out - and they 'll try and build logical patterns . Often these new languages are hybrids , where the linguist takes all the good bits from his favourite languages and pools them , such as Esperanto . Other times the languages are designed with a purpose - for the blind , for the deaf , or even as a code so that only a select few people could learn and use it . One of the beautiful things about Tolkein 's languages is that he deliberately included inconsistencies and irregularities to make them * seem * more natural , and therefore more believable . My absolute favourite artificial language is [ Solresol ] ( URL_0 ) . It 's utterly useless , but the idea behind it is wonderful .<>Creating a new language is a very complex and time-consuming process that usually involves a lot of thought, planning, and experimentation. It's not something that can be done overnight or by just one person.\n\nThere are many different ways to create a new language, but one common method is to start by developing a set of basic rules and principles for the language, such as its grammar, syntax, and phonology (the sounds used in the language). This might involve making decisions about things like word order, verb conjugation, and how words are formed and pronounced.\n\nOnce the basic rules of the language have been established, the creator of the language can then start to build up a vocabulary by creating new words or borrowing them from other languages. This process might involve inventing new words for concepts that don't exist in other languages, or adapting words from other languages to fit the rules and sounds of the new language.\n\nIt's also important to consider how the language will be written and how it will be used by speakers. This might involve developing a new writing system or adapting an existing one, and thinking about how the language will be used in different contexts, such as for communication, literature, or education.\n\nOverall, creating a new language is a challenging but rewarding process that requires a lot of creativity, dedication, and patience. It's not something that can be done quickly or easily, but with hard work and determination, it is possible to create a language that can be used and understood by others.<>reddit_eli5