The so called United States fiscal cliff in 2013 , from a neutral point of view . Yes I read the wiki but I do n't get why they wo nt just do another extension of the laws in place . Explain like I'm five.<>Because it 's not particularly good policy . The United States as a country is not doing well financially . We are incurring tons of debt and our current fiscal policies are not adequate to turn things around . You can kind of look at it like making $ 100 a month and then spending $ 200 in credit per month -- that 's not the real ratio , but you can get the idea . So ? So we need to change our fiscal policies to fix this . How ? Well , there 's basically 3 ways : 1 ) Spend a lot , lot less money . 2 ) Tax the citizens a lot , lot more . 3 ) Some combination of both . # 1 is tough because there are a lot of things the government spends money on that is particularly debatable about being good or bad to cut . However , the solution of only cutting spending would mean a lot of things would get chopped down badly -- education , social security , medicare , public works : roads \/ parks , etc , etc . Now , not everyone thinks some or all of those things are important , but they are certainly important to the people that depends on them . This is ( in general ) what the Republicans want to do . # 2 is tough because no one wants taxes . This one is pretty simple -- people generally do n't like paying more in taxes . This is ( in general ) what the Democrats want to do . # 3 is the most realistic approach , but one of the hardest to go through because it requires cooperation from Democrats and Republicans . Republicans want to fight tax cuts as hard as possible and Democrats want to fight mass spending cuts as hard as possible . Do n't get me wrong , I 'm sure some or many republicans see merit in ( small ) tax increases , and I 'm sure some or many democrats are ok with cutting spending in certain areas . However , it seems unlikely for people to find a compromise . So , we are facing a fiscal cliff . President Bush instituted the tax cuts in question with the caveat that they would expire at some point unless they were extended . Well , they 've been extended several times now with the same caveat that they would expire if not extended . It 's an interesting position for the Democrats though , because politically , it looks bad if people ca n't come together to get stuff done , but on the other hand , the fiscal cliff is something that the Democrats would mind a lot less than Republicans ( since it would automatically raise taxes ) . The final piece of the puzzle is that Democrats have a majority in the senate , and Republicans have a majority in the house , so any legitimate solution has to please enough democrats * * and * * republicans to pass the house and senate . Thus , the looming cliff and the widespread coverage of it .<>The United States fiscal cliff was a term used to describe a series of tax increases and spending cuts that were set to take effect in 2013. These measures were put in place in previous years as a way to try to reduce the budget deficit, but they were set to expire at the end of 2012. If they had expired without being extended or replaced, it would have had a significant impact on the economy and many people's finances.\n\nThe main reason that lawmakers didn't simply extend the laws that were in place is that they were trying to find a way to reduce the budget deficit and make the tax system more fair. Extending the laws without making any changes would not have helped to achieve these goals. Instead, lawmakers had to negotiate and come up with a new plan that would address these issues. This process can be difficult and time-consuming, especially when there are different opinions on the best way to move forward.\n\nI hope this helps to clarify things! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5