Can I get a dumbed down explanation of risk measures used for evaluating stocks?<>Standard deviation from Wikipedia : In statistics and probability theory, the standard deviation   (represented by the Greek letter sigma, σ) shows how much variation or   dispersion from the average exists.1 A low standard deviation   indicates that the data points tend to be very close to the mean (also   called expected value); a high standard deviation indicates that the   data points are spread out over a large range of values. In the case of stock returns, a lower value would indicate less volatility while a higher value would mean more volatility, which could be interpreted as high much change does the stock's price go through over time. Mean would be interpreted as if all the figures had to be the same, what would they be? So if a stock returns 10% each year for 3 years in a row, then 10% would be the mean or average return. Now, it is worth noting that there are more than a few calculations that may be done to derive a mean. First, there is the straight forward sum and division by the number of elements idea. For example, if the returns by year were 0%, 10%, and 20% then one may take the sum of 30% and divide by 3 to get a simple mean of 10%. However, some people would rather look at a Compound Annual Growth Rate which in this case would mean multiplying the returns together so 1*(1+.1)*(1+.2)=1.1*1.2=1.32 or 32% since there is some compounding here. Now, instead of dividing a cubic root is taken to get approximately 9.7% average annual return that is a bit lower yet if you compound it over 3 years it will get up to 32% as 10% compounded over 3 years would be 33.1% as (1.1)^3=1.331. Sharpe Ratio from Investopedia: A ratio developed by Nobel laureate William F. Sharpe to measure   risk-adjusted performance. The Sharpe ratio is calculated by   subtracting the risk-free rate - such as that of the 10-year U.S.   Treasury bond - from the rate of return for a portfolio and dividing   the result by the standard deviation of the portfolio returns. Thus, this is a way to think about given the volatility how much better did the portfolio do than the 10 year bond. R-squared, Alpha and Beta: These are all around the idea of \"linear regression\" modelling. The idea is to take some standard like say the \"S & P 500\" in the case of US stocks and see how well does the portfolio follow this and what if one were to use a linear model are the multipliers and addition components to it. R-squared can be thought of it as a measure as to how good is the fit on a scale of 0 to 1. An S & P 500 index fund may well have an R-squared of 1.00 or 0.99 to the index as it will track it extremely closely while other investments may not follow that well at all. Part of modern portfolio theory would be to have asset classes that move independently of each other and thus would have a lower R-squared so that the movement of the index doesn't indicate how an investment will do. Now, as for alpha and beta, do you remember the formula for a line in slope-intercept form, where y is the portfolio's return and x is the index's return: y=mx+b In this situation m is beta which is the multiple of the return, and b is the alpha or how much additional return one gets without the multiple. Going back to an index fund example, m will be near 1 and b will be near 0 and there isn't anything being done and so the portfolio's return computed based on the index's return is simply y=x. Other mutual funds may try to have a high alpha as this is seen as the risk-free return as there isn't the ups and downs of the market here. Other mutual funds may go for a high beta so that there is volatility for investors to handle.<>There are several risk measures that are commonly used to evaluate stocks. These measures can help investors understand the level of risk associated with a particular stock and make informed decisions about whether to buy or sell it. Some of the most common risk measures include:Standard Deviation: This measure indicates how much the returns on a stock are likely to vary from the average over a given period of time. A higher standard deviation indicates higher volatility and therefore higher risk.Beta: This measure indicates how closely the returns on a stock are correlated with the overall market. A beta of 1 means that the stock's returns are closely correlated with the market, while a beta greater than 1 indicates higher volatility and risk.Sharpe Ratio: This measure compares the return on a stock to the level of risk associated with it. A higher Sharpe ratio indicates a better risk-return tradeoff.Alpha: This measure indicates how well a stock has performed compared to a benchmark, such as the S&P 500. A positive alpha indicates that the stock has outperformed the benchmark, while a negative alpha indicates underperformance.These are just a few of the many risk measures that are used to evaluate stocks. It's important to keep in mind that no single measure is perfect, and it's often best to consider a range of measures when evaluating the risk of a particular stock.","Sure! When it comes to evaluating stocks, there are many different risk measures that analysts and investors use to gauge the potential risk associated with a particular investment. Some common risk measures include:Beta: A measure of a stock's volatility in relation to the overall market. A beta of 1 means that the stock is as volatile as the market, while a beta less than 1 means it is less volatile, and a beta greater than 1 means it is more volatile.Standard Deviation: A measure of the variability of returns on an investment. A higher standard deviation indicates that an investment is more risky, because there is a greater chance that the returns will be far from the average.Sharpe Ratio: A measure of the return of an investment relative to its risk. It is calculated by dividing the excess return of the investment over the risk-free rate (such as the yield on a US Treasury bond) by the standard deviation of the investment's returns. A higher Sharpe Ratio indicates a better risk-adjusted return.Value at Risk (VaR): A measure of the maximum loss that an investment is expected to incur over a given time period, with a certain level of confidence. For example, a VaR of $10,000 with a 95% confidence level means that there is a 5% chance that the investment will lose more than $10,000 over the specified time period.These are just a few examples of risk measures that are commonly used to evaluate stocks. Do you have any specific questions about any of these measures?<>finance