Automotive Engine Types : V , W , Straight , Flat , Wankel \/ Rotary , ... i get that they 're all configurations for moving pistons around , but practically speaking , what are the differences between them ( advantages \/ disadvantages ) . thanks ! Explain like I'm five.<>Just to clarify - there are no pistons in a rotary engine . You have rotors ( usually two or three ) that ... Well ... Rotate around a centric shaft doing the same job of the pistons ( intake , compression , ignition , exhaust , or , suck squish bang blow ) . It allows for a very , very compact and light weight design that an be mounted far back in the engine bay , verging on a mid engine design . By their design , they do eat oil , so you have to stay on top of that , and they also run very hot . Between them running very hot , and the restrictive nature of the emissions equipment required to pass US inspections , they developed a reputation for being less than reliable .<>Sure! I'll try to explain the different types of engine configurations in a way that is easy to understand. V engines: V engines have cylinders arranged in a \"V\" shape. They are often used in larger vehicles because they can produce a lot of power. One advantage of V engines is that they can be made with a variety of cylinder counts, so they can be customized for different power needs. A disadvantage is that they can be bulky and heavy, which can make the vehicle less fuel efficient. W engines: W engines are similar to V engines, but the cylinders are arranged in a \"W\" shape instead of a V shape. They are also typically used in larger vehicles and can produce a lot of power. However, they are even bulkier and heavier than V engines, so they may be even less fuel efficient. Straight engines: Straight engines, also known as inline engines, have cylinders arranged in a straight line. They are commonly used in smaller vehicles because they are generally smaller and lighter than V or W engines. Straight engines can be efficient and reliable, but they may not produce as much power as V or W engines. Flat engines: Flat engines, also known as boxer engines, have cylinders arranged in a flat configuration. They are often used in sports cars and other high-performance vehicles because they can produce a lot of power in a small space. Flat engines can be smooth and efficient, but they may require more maintenance than some other types of engines. Wankel\/rotary engines: Wankel engines, also known as rotary engines, are a type of engine that uses a rotating motion to generate power instead of the up-and-down motion of traditional piston engines. They can be compact and lightweight, but they may not be as efficient or reliable as other types of engines. I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5