In the lord of the rings , why do the orcs lose all the time even with numerical advantages ? sorry if this has been asked before Please explain like I'm five.<>So , going way back ( edit : more than 10,000 years prior to the War of the Rings ) , Iluvatar was the original creator of life on the world of Lord of the Rings ( Arda ) , and of his creations , which included the Valar ( beings of great power who basically run things from afar ) and the Maiar ( beings of slightly lesser power , including the istari ( wizards ) like Gandalf and Sauron ) , and the elves , the elves were Iluvatar 's favorites . So , one of the Valar , a bad guy named Morgoth , captured some elves and tried to use them to create his own \" children \" - but they were a perversion of the elves , lesser in every way . These \" children \" are the orcs that continue to live on well after Morgoth 's departure from the world . Sauron and Saruman continue to use them as armies . These orcs live in the darkest places of earth , like Moria , and some of them could n't stand being out in daylight ( though Saruman bred some that could handle it ) . The reason they lose all the time is because ( 1 ) they initially did n't do too well in the sun , ( 2 ) they 're not as smart as elves because they 're a cheap copy , ( 3 ) they do n't have love or any other driving force to help motivate them to really TRY to win , and finally , because it is suggested in Tolkien 's works that when it counts , * when it really counts * , the Valar and Maiar kind of step in and help out a little bit . Gandalf , for example , lends great power and wisdom to the armies of elves and men throughout the War of the Rings , and some of the goodness and power of the valar still run through the earth and water of Arda . It 's some supernatural shit . ( Edit : for example , this is partially why the ringwraiths ( black riders ) are so hesitant to chase after Frodo when Arwen \/ Glorfindel carries him across the Bruinen , they do n't want to go into the water , because the spirit of the Vala , Ulmo , still resides in some of the waters of Middle Earth ) . Anyway , it 's been over 10 years since I was a real Tolkien scholar , but that sums it up pretty much in ELI5 terms , as far as I remember . Someone else might be able to provide a more accurate or detailed answer . Sources : The Silmarillion , the Unfinished Tales , Letters of Tolkien , LotR appendices . Edit : Someone else pointed out that they are n't as well trained , and this is probably part of it for sure . The men of Gondor and many different races of elves were well trained as warriors ( especially because elves , who are immortal , had lived through previous dark periods prior to the War of the Rings ) , so they would have the tactical advantage in some ways . Edit : details and examples Edit : This is literally the only time I 've ever felt I could contribute a useful answer in ELI5 . Thanks OP .<>Orcs are a type of fictional creature that appear in the Lord of the Rings novels and movies. They are usually depicted as being large and muscular, with a violent and aggressive nature. \nThere are a few reasons why the orcs might lose all the time, even when they have numerical advantages. One reason is that the orcs are often less well-trained and disciplined than their opponents. They tend to rely on brute force and numbers rather than tactics and strategy, which makes them less effective in battle. \nAnother reason is that the orcs are often fighting against more powerful and skilled opponents. For example, in the Lord of the Rings novels and movies, the orcs are often fighting against humans, elves, and dwarves, who are all more technologically advanced and have more powerful weapons and armor. The orcs are also often fighting against armies led by powerful wizards, who can use magic to help turn the tide of battle. \nOverall, while the orcs might have numerical advantages in some battles, they are often outmatched by their more skilled and powerful opponents.<>reddit_eli5