What are water towers for ? I 've asked this to my dad and he said something about the pressure in the air but I 'm not sure what that means . Please explain like I'm five.<>The water is high in the air , and gravity is trying to pull it down . So it not only acts a a place to store water , it stores the energy needed to supply water pressure . In my town , anyway , the firefighters need it : the city water pumps are n't big enough to supply fire hoses for long . But the water tower is like a battery for water service : slowly fill it up , and you can get a lot of water , at pressure , very quickly . Even if the main pumps go down .<>Water towers are used to store water so that it can be used when it is needed. When water is used in a building or a neighborhood, it is often pumped up into the water tower. The water is then held in the tower until it is needed, at which point it is released back into the pipes and sent to the buildings or homes that need it. The reason that the water has to be stored in a tower is because of something called \"water pressure.\" When water is pumped from a treatment plant to the buildings and homes that need it, it needs to have a certain amount of pressure in order to flow through the pipes and come out of the faucets. The water tower helps to maintain the correct water pressure by storing the water at a high enough elevation. This way, when the water is released from the tower, it will flow down through the pipes and out of the faucets with the right amount of pressure.<>Water towers are used to store water so that it can be used when it is needed. When water is used in a building or a neighborhood, it is often pumped up into the water tower. The water is then held in the tower until it is needed, at which point it is released back into the pipes and sent to the buildings or homes that need it. The reason that the water has to be stored in a tower is because of something called \"water pressure.\" When water is pumped from a treatment plant to the buildings and homes that need it, it needs to have a certain amount of pressure in order to flow through the pipes and come out of the faucets. The water tower helps to maintain the correct water pressure by storing the water at a high enough elevation. This way, when the water is released from the tower, it will flow down through the pipes and out of the faucets with the right amount of pressure.<>reddit_eli5