Why is suicide more common in males ( younger males ) ? Title says it all , is there any research into this ? Sort of related to me so please be sensitive . Thanks ! Please explain like I'm five.<>Men and women attempt suicide about equally . The difference in success rate is due to the methods used . Women tend to favour methods that are less certain and more likely to leave an intact body ( pills , cutting wrists . ) There is some thought that this might be due to how women are socialized ( wanting to create the least amount of mess ) . Men on the other hand succeed more because they use more violent methods . ( such as guns or jumping in front of a train ) . Again , here it is thought that socialisation plays a role . Men not only on average have more access to guns \/ have an interest in guns that is more encouraged , but men also tend to have more of a ' go big or go home ' kind of attitude . Sadly in this case that attitude leads to them dying more . What lays underneath this all is a society where mental health is still too stigmatised and often unaffordable for many people . People are not taught to mind their mental health as they should , and often friends and family members are not aware of the warning signs ( if any are present ) so they find it hard to sound the alarms when things start going south .<>Suicide is a complex issue and there is no single answer to why it is more common in males, especially younger males. However, there are several factors that may contribute to this.One possible reason is that males may be more likely to use more lethal means to attempt suicide, such as guns or hanging, which makes it more likely that they will die from their attempt.Another reason could be that males may be more likely to experience certain risk factors for suicide, such as depression, substance abuse, and relationship problems. These risk factors can make it more difficult for males to cope with challenges and stressors in their lives, leading to feelings of hopelessness and a desire to end their lives.It is also possible that societal expectations and cultural norms may play a role in the higher rates of suicide in males. For example, males may be less likely to seek help for mental health problems or to express their emotions, which can make it more difficult for them to get the support and treatment they need.Overall, it is important to recognize that suicide is a serious public health issue that affects people of all genders, ages, and backgrounds. If you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide, it is important to seek help as soon as possible. There are many resources available to help, such as the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-TALK).<>Suicide is a complex issue and there is no single answer to why it is more common in males, especially younger males. However, there are several factors that may contribute to this.One possible reason is that males may be more likely to use more lethal means to attempt suicide, such as guns or hanging, which makes it more likely that they will die from their attempt.Another reason could be that males may be more likely to experience certain risk factors for suicide, such as depression, substance abuse, and relationship problems. These risk factors can make it more difficult for males to cope with challenges and stressors in their lives, leading to feelings of hopelessness and a desire to end their lives.It is also possible that societal expectations and cultural norms may play a role in the higher rates of suicide in males. For example, males may be less likely to seek help for mental health problems or to express their emotions, which can make it more difficult for them to get the support and treatment they need.Overall, it is important to recognize that suicide is a serious public health issue that affects people of all genders, ages, and backgrounds. If you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide, it is important to seek help as soon as possible. There are many resources available to help, such as the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-TALK).<>reddit_eli5