why do n’t you hear about the history of Africa before colonialism ? Why do n’t we learn about Africa ’s history before slavery ? Was it not documented enough or is it just another systematic racism ? Explain like I'm five. <>Egypt is one of the oldest civilizations on the planet and we hear a lot about them and their history prior to European colonial era . We also hear a lot about the Caliphate eras of the middle ages and dark ages which controlled much of North and Central Africa , and of Carthage that was in North Africa during the Roman era . But you are correct that there is not a lot on Central and Southern Africa . That would be because most of those tribal groups did not have written language so we do not have records of their history outside of oral traditions of the groups , or records of them made by other groups . Also you talk as though slavery was something unique to Imperial Europe and the Americas . It was not . Slavery has existed as long as civilization has existed and virtually every ethnic group on the planet has owned slaves and been slaves at some point in their history .<>It's not that the history of Africa before colonialism or slavery was not documented enough, but rather that this history has not been as widely taught or recognized as the histories of other regions. There are many reasons for this, including the fact that European colonial powers often downplayed or distorted the histories and cultures of the places they colonized in order to justify their actions and maintain their control. Additionally, the histories of African societies before colonialism are often much more difficult to study, as many of these societies did not have written records or used oral traditions to pass down their histories. As a result, it can be more challenging for historians to learn about and accurately portray these histories.\\n\\nHowever, it is important to recognize and learn about the rich and varied histories of African societies before colonialism, as they offer a deeper understanding of the continent's past and the cultures and civilizations that have existed there. There are many historians and researchers who are working to uncover and share this history, and it is becoming more widely recognized and taught in schools and universities around the world.<>reddit_eli5