How do speakers make more than one frequency at a time ?please ! After some google searching , I 'm still rather confused as to how a single conical speaker can produce different frequencies simultaneously to produce chords and such . Any simple explanations for me ? Explain like I'm five.<>Imagine it like ripples in a pond . If you throw in a pebble into still water , there will be a simple ripple pattern of a certain frequency . If you throw in that pebble and another anywhere next to it , they will each make their own ripples which will then crash into one another and make a more complex ripple . This is the superimposed frequency . Our minds are able to deconstruct this complexity into its component fundamental frequencies even if you are unaware , and as such , when speaker cones vibrate they vibrate according to this complex waveform which we then hear as sound composed of many different frequencies ,<>Sure! A speaker is able to produce multiple frequencies at the same time by vibrating its cone in different ways. The cone is attached to a coil of wire called a voice coil, which is suspended in a magnetic field. When an electrical current is passed through the voice coil, it creates a magnetic field that interacts with the magnetic field of the speaker. This causes the voice coil to move back and forth, causing the cone to vibrate.\n\nThe cone of the speaker is made of a flexible material, such as paper or plastic, and it is shaped like a cone. When it vibrates, it pushes and pulls the air around it, creating sound waves that travel through the air to our ears.\n\nThe pitch of the sound produced by a speaker is determined by how fast the cone is vibrating. Different frequencies correspond to different pitches, so to produce multiple frequencies at the same time, the speaker needs to vibrate its cone at different speeds. This is done by sending different electrical signals to the voice coil, which cause it to move at different speeds and produce different frequencies.\n\nSo, in summary, a speaker is able to produce multiple frequencies at the same time by vibrating its cone in different ways, using different electrical signals to control the voice coil and alter the speed of the cone's vibration. I hope this helps to explain the concept! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5