Do dogs have a concept of death Edit : I 'm loving these answers . To clarify some questions . I meant if they know they will die some day Please explain like I'm five.<>My dog and best friend of ten of ten years started having seizures last fall . They became more frequent and one day I found her lying down up by the ol gut pile where we threw dead things(it 's a farm , if you have livestock you have deadstock ) , it was n't a place she ever hung out at and she had just been lying there , like waiting . I told her to come and she came back up to the house with me . Her seizures became more frequent and she died in my arms that night . But I have no doubt in my mind that she knew it was imminent and went where she thought she was supposed to go . Course we gave her a proper burial and all . She knew .<>It is not clear whether dogs have a concept of death in the same way that humans do. Humans have a complex understanding of death, including an awareness of their own mortality and the finality of death. Dogs, on the other hand, do not have the same level of cognitive ability and may not fully understand the concept of death. \nHowever, dogs are highly social animals and are able to form strong bonds with their owners and other animals. When a dog loses a companion, whether it is another dog, a human, or another animal, they may display signs of grief and loss, such as lethargy, loss of appetite, and changes in behavior. This suggests that dogs are able to recognize that their companion is no longer present and may be able to understand that death is a permanent separation. \nIt is also possible that dogs have a basic instinctual understanding of death, as they may be more attuned to changes in the environment and the behavior of other animals, and may be able to sense when an animal is sick or injured. However, it is difficult to say for certain whether dogs have a fully developed concept of death, as this is a complex and abstract concept that may be beyond their cognitive abilities.<>reddit_eli5