How do motherboards and circuit boards get completely ruined by electrostatic discharge ( ESD ) ? Seems like such a small amount of electricity compared to what is drawn from the Power supply Please explain like I'm five.<>I 'm a semiconductor reliability engineer , and I used to do a lot of ESD failure analysis : Integrated circuits have very , very tiny features . Electrostatic discharges do n't have a lot of total charge , but the rate of charge flow ( current ) can exceed several amps for a short period of time . Since the features that the current flows through are quite small , the current densities reach incredible levels .... enough to melt metal conductors and even the [ silicon itself ] ( URL_0 ) . That 's pretty awesome , when you keep in mind that it take in excess of 1400 degrees C to melt Si . Similarly , the voltages can be quite high ( thousands of volts ) , sometimes causing rupture of the very thin insulators in an integrated circuit . ( But the killer is more often the heating . ) ESD almost never directly damages a circuit board . But it can short a component on the board , making bad things happen to the board as a secondary effect .<>Electrostatic discharge (ESD) is a sudden flow of electricity between two charged objects. It can happen when two objects with different electrical charges come into contact with each other, or when an object becomes charged by friction or contact with another charged object. \nMotherboards and circuit boards contain many small electronic components, such as transistors and capacitors, which are very sensitive to ESD. When an ESD event occurs, the sudden flow of electricity can damage or destroy these components, rendering the motherboard or circuit board inoperable. \nThink of it like this: Imagine you have a bucket of water and you want to pour it into a glass. If you pour the water slowly, it will fill up the glass without any problems. But if you pour the water too quickly, it might overflow and spill out, causing a mess. It's similar with ESD and electronic components. A small amount of electricity flowing through the component slowly might not cause any damage, but a large, sudden flow of electricity can be too much for the component to handle and it can be damaged or destroyed. \nSo even though the amount of electricity involved in an ESD event might seem small compared to the power drawn from a power supply, it can still be enough to cause serious damage to sensitive electronic components. That's why it's important to take precautions to prevent ESD when working with electronic equipment.<>reddit_eli5