What will happen to the typical American if The U.S actually defaults ? What would happen to the typical , average American if the U.S government does default ? Explain like I'm five.<>If the US government does not extend the continuing resolution to pay things . By next month . 1 ) We default , which is your specific question . By defaulting all investments in government bonds set to come due from this point forward would not be paid . This would cost billions of dollars in investment money immediately as people are not being paid . Additionally it means that few would invest in them in the short term future which would cost billions more . Additionally any federal bonds taken to say build new schools , build a government building , establish a park , or the like would also likely not be paid possibly putting thousands out of work who would otherwise be employed by those projects . 2 ) Federal Employees would continue to be in shut down . Those on furlough would have to do without being paid knowing that they will get back pay , but those who are simply getting the equivalent of unpaid vacation would likely have to start getting other jobs after being unpaid for a full month . 3 ) Without the extension of the budget all the \" emergency \" funds will be use up in the Federal pension plans , Veterans retirement and disability pay , Social Security , and Disability pay will not be given next month . This means there will be Hundreds of thousands unable to pay bills since most of these type of people live pay - check to pay - check . So while the default by itself will mostly only effect the rich and upper middle class who invest , all the things that are connected with it will put hundreds of thousands without pay , hundreds of thousand more without jobs , and the economy in a massive death spiral .<>If the U.S government defaults, it means that it will not be able to pay its debts on time. This could have serious consequences for the average American.\r\n\r\nFor one, if the government defaults, it could cause financial markets to become unstable, which could lead to higher interest rates and a decrease in the value of the U.S dollar. This could make it more expensive for Americans to borrow money, such as for a mortgage or car loan. It could also make it more difficult for Americans to save money, since the value of their savings may decrease.\r\n\r\nIn addition, a government default could lead to a loss of confidence in the U.S economy, which could make it harder for the government to borrow money in the future. This could lead to higher taxes or cuts to government programs and services, which could affect the average American.\r\n\r\nOverall, a government default could have serious consequences for the economy and the everyday lives of Americans. It is important for the government to avoid defaulting on its debts in order to maintain stability and confidence in the U.S economy.<>reddit_eli5