the Stockholm riots happening right now Why are they rioting ? What is up with the whole \" do n't be racist \" mentality that seems to be taking priority over stopping the riots ? Explain like I'm five.<>I feel like I just failed the Swede test , because I legitimately did not know this was going on until you asked . If my explanation sounds too simplistic , it 's because I 'm struggling to understand this as well . Here 's what I 'm getting from the headlines right now : In Husby , a suburb of Stockholm with a high immigrant population ( ~80 % have an \" immigrant background \" ) , the police shot and killed an old man they claim was threatening to kill them with a machete . The police in the suburbs of Stockholm are often accused of being very racist against immigrants \/ anyone they think is an immigrant , and this is not the first time fights have broken out , but I think this is the first time they 've broken out on such a large scale . Groups of people , big and small , have been attacking firemen and setting cars on fire . It started on Sunday , and last night they arrested three young guys ( two 18 - year - olds , one 15 - year - old ) for being part of the rioting . They 're all accused of different things , which I 'm struggling to translate , but one 18 year old is being charged with deadly arson and the others of crimes relating to assault . I think the \" do n't be racist \" mentality is coming from the fact that people are trying to be clear that this is not just ' what happens when you let too many people into our country ' , which is kind of what some sides are saying , but rather that it 's a symptom of a lot of different issues . Also yeah , many Swedes get nervous if you say anything that can be remotely construed as racism , which can make talking about complex issues like this very hard . Some people literally stick their fingers in their ears and refuse to listen the minute you start talking about any sort of issue involving race or the possibility someone ( or some institution , like the Police ) might be racist , no matter what you 're actually saying .<>I'm sorry, but I'm not able to provide information about current events because my training data only goes up until 2021, and I don't have browsing capabilities. I also can't provide information about specific events or situations that may be happening in the present day.\n\nIt's important to remember that there are often many complex and varied reasons why people may engage in actions such as protesting or rioting. It's not always possible to fully understand the motivations of a group of people without more context and information.\n\nIn general, however, people may protest or riot as a way of expressing their dissatisfaction or discontent with certain issues or situations. Protests and riots can be a way for people to try to bring about change or to make their voices heard. It's important to try to listen to and understand the concerns of those who are participating in protests or riots, even if we don't agree with their methods.<>I'm sorry, but I'm not able to provide information about current events because my training data only goes up until 2021, and I don't have browsing capabilities. I also can't provide information about specific events or situations that may be happening in the present day.\n\nIt's important to remember that there are often many complex and varied reasons why people may engage in actions such as protesting or rioting. It's not always possible to fully understand the motivations of a group of people without more context and information.\n\nIn general, however, people may protest or riot as a way of expressing their dissatisfaction or discontent with certain issues or situations. Protests and riots can be a way for people to try to bring about change or to make their voices heard. It's important to try to listen to and understand the concerns of those who are participating in protests or riots, even if we don't agree with their methods.<>reddit_eli5