Can a custodian refuse prior-year IRA\/HSA deposit postmarked April 15?<>I had a situation like this also. A client deposited an IRA check to his local P.O. prior to collection p\/up, thinking this meant it would be postmarked April 15. It may have been picked up, but wasn't postmarked until the next day, and my firm refused to consider it as timely. I do remember discussing it w\/my Retirement Services Dept. Maybe they made an exception for me and my client, but maybe not. I don't remember. Good luck.<>It is generally not possible for a custodian to refuse a prior-year IRA or HSA deposit that is postmarked by April 15. The deadline for making contributions to an IRA for the prior tax year is generally April 15, and contributions made after this deadline are generally not allowed. However, there are some exceptions to this rule that may allow you to make contributions to an IRA after the deadline.For example, if you are eligible to file for an extension of the deadline to file your tax return, you may also be eligible to extend the deadline for making contributions to an IRA. In this case, you would need to file an extension request with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and your custodian would generally be required to accept any contributions made before the extended deadline.It is important to note that there are limits on the amount of contributions that you can make to an IRA each year, and these limits may vary based on your age and income level. You should consult with a tax professional or the IRS to determine the maximum contribution limit for your situation.With regard to HSA contributions, the deadline for making contributions for the prior tax year is generally April 15. However, similar to IRAs, there are some exceptions to this rule that may allow you to make contributions to an HSA after the deadline. For example, if you are eligible to file for an extension of the deadline to file your tax return, you may also be eligible to extend the deadline for making contributions to an HSA. In this case, you would need to file an extension request with the IRS and your custodian would generally be required to accept any contributions made before the extended deadline.Again, it is important to note that there are limits on the amount of contributions that you can make to an HSA each year, and these limits may vary based on your age, income level, and the type of health insurance coverage you have. You should consult with a tax professional or the IRS to determine the maximum contribution limit for your situation.<>finance