How do places like zoos and amusement park profit off memberships ? It seems to me that with the prices they charge anything past one visit would be a loss of profits . Unless they are counting on concession and gift shop sales to make up the difference . Explain like I'm five. <>People tend to over - estimate how often they go , so they ’re as likely to not get their money ’s worth than benefit from free admissions ; conversely , admissions are basically free in terms of variable costs to institution — if another family shows up , the Zoo does n’t need to have more staff working , there is n’t much consumed by more visitors ( maybe a few squares of TP ? ) ... and on the other hand , they do buy more $ 10 boxes of popcorn , overpriced burgers , and souvenir pandas if they show up than if they stay home . Also , for budgeting it ’s better to have a significant chuck of known revenue to work with , to help hedge for an unusually rainy summer or recession limiting discretionary family outings . ( Similarly , snow plow companies like to have balance of annual service plan customers and per - plow customers to hedge possibility of low or high snowfall season )<>Zoos and amusement parks offer membership programs to allow visitors to pay a single upfront fee that gives them unlimited access to the park for a certain period of time, such as a year. This can be a more convenient and cost-effective option for people who plan on visiting the park multiple times in a year.\\n\\nWhile it may seem like the park would lose money by allowing someone to visit multiple times for the same price as a single visit, the membership fees are usually set high enough to cover the cost of providing the additional visits. In addition, the park may make money from other sources, such as food and merchandise sales, which can help offset the cost of providing the membership.\\n\\nOverall, the goal of a membership program is to encourage people to visit the park more often, which can ultimately lead to increased profits for the park.<>reddit_eli5