Missing 401(k) dividends<>Your investment is probably in a Collective Investment Trust. These are not mutual funds, and are not publicly traded. I.e. they are private to plan participants in your company. Because of this, they are not required* to distribute dividends like mutual funds. Instead, they will reinvest dividends automatically, increasing the value of the fund, rather than number of shares, as with dividend reinvestment. Sine you mention the S&P 500 fund you have tracks closely to the S&P Index, keep in mind there's two indexes you could be looking at: Without any new contributions, your fund should closely track the Total Return version for periods 3 months or longer, minus the expense ratio. If you are adding contributions to the fund, you can't just look at the start and end balances. The comparison is trickier and you'll need to use the Internal Rate of Return (look into the XIRR function in Excel\/Google Sheets). *MFs are not strictly required to pay dividends, but are strongly tax-incentivized to do so, and essentially all do.<>If you are missing dividends from your 401(k) account, there are a few potential explanations for this. Here are some possible causes and what you can do to resolve the issue:Check your account balance: Make sure that the dividends you are expecting are reflected in your account balance. If you do not see the dividends listed, there may be a delay or error in the payment process. You should contact your plan administrator or the company that manages your 401(k) to inquire about the status of your dividends.Confirm your dividend reinvestment election: If you have elected to have your dividends automatically reinvested in your 401(k) account, they may not be immediately visible in your account balance. Instead, the dividends will be used to purchase additional shares of the fund in which they were earned. You can confirm your dividend reinvestment election by reviewing your account statements or contacting your plan administrator.Check for errors: If you believe you should have received dividends but they are not reflected in your account balance, there may be an error in the payment process. You should contact your plan administrator or the company that manages your 401(k) to report the issue and request an investigation.If you are unable to resolve the issue by following these steps, you may want to consider seeking the assistance of a financial professional or attorney who can help you navigate the issue.","If you are missing dividends on your 401(k) account, there could be a few reasons for this. Here are a few things you could try to troubleshoot the issue:Check with your employer or 401(k) plan administrator to see if there has been a delay in distributing dividends. There could be a processing issue that is causing the delay.Make sure you have selected the appropriate investments in your 401(k) account. Dividends are typically paid out by stocks and mutual funds, so if you have not invested in these types of assets, you may not be receiving dividends.Check your account statements to see if the dividends have been credited to your account. If the dividends have not been credited, it could be an issue with the investment itself or with the way the dividends are being paid out.If you are still having trouble, you may want to consider speaking with a financial advisor or a representative from your 401(k) plan administrator to see if they can help resolve the issue.It's important to keep track of your dividends and any other income you receive from your 401(k) account, as this can impact your overall financial situation and retirement planning. If you are concerned about missing dividends or have any other questions about your 401(k) account, it's a good idea to speak with a financial professional or your employer for guidance.<>finance