Why is James Brady 's death ruled a homicide ? Is there a precedent for someone dying decades after an attempted murder and then reopening the case as a homicide ? What is the motivation for ruling this homicide ? Please explain like I'm five.<>The ruling was a medical ruling , not a legal decision . A court has already found him not guilty of his actions that day due to insanity . So , there 's not really any courtrooms in his future as a result of the medical examiner 's opinion .<>James Brady was the White House Press Secretary under President Ronald Reagan. In 1981, he was shot and seriously injured during an assassination attempt on President Reagan. The person who shot him, John Hinckley Jr., was found not guilty by reason of insanity and has been in mental hospitals since the shooting. In 2014, more than 30 years after the shooting, a Washington D.C. medical examiner ruled that Brady's death was a homicide. This means that the medical examiner determined that the injuries Brady sustained in the shooting were a significant contributing factor in his death. It is not uncommon for a death to be ruled a homicide long after the event that caused the injuries. In general, a death can be ruled a homicide if it was caused by the actions of another person, even if those actions were not intended to cause death. In this case, the medical examiner determined that Brady's injuries from the shooting were a significant factor in his death, so the death was ruled a homicide. The motivation for ruling Brady's death a homicide may have been to hold the person who caused his injuries accountable for their actions. In this case, Hinckley was already found not guilty by reason of insanity and has been in mental hospitals since the shooting, so it is unlikely that any further legal action will be taken. However, ruling the death a homicide can provide a sense of closure for the victim's family and can help to ensure that the person responsible for the injuries is held accountable.<>reddit_eli5