Q. Will I be made comfortable during getting anesthesia for wisdom tooth removal?Hello doctor,Today I got my wisdom teeth pulled and they said they were gonna give me a shot in my mouth. There is no way I will be relaxed. Is there any option they would do for me to be more comfortable?<>Hi. Yes, this is the only way to get local anesthesia. You can also go for general anesthesia but it will be too costly and needs hospitalization. It is a simple procedure, and you will only feel a prick like an insect bite. Do not worry, it is simple and there will be no pain during the procedure. If you are too apprehensive tell your doctor that apply some local anesthesia at the site of the prick, you will then even not feel the prick too.<>It's understandable that you may be feeling anxious about getting a shot and having wisdom tooth removal surgery. However, there are steps that can be taken to help make you more comfortable during the procedure.\n\nFirst, it's important to choose a dental or oral surgeon that you feel comfortable with and trust. Having a good relationship with your surgeon can help put you at ease. You can also discuss your concerns with the surgeon beforehand and ask about the type of anesthesia that will be used and how it will be administered.\n\nThere are several types of anesthesia that can be used for wisdom tooth removal, including local anesthesia, intravenous (IV) sedation, and general anesthesia. Local anesthesia numbs the area around the tooth and is often used in combination with other forms of anesthesia. IV sedation involves the administration of medications through a vein to help you relax and feel drowsy. General anesthesia is administered through an IV or by inhaling gases and results in a deep sleep, so you will not be aware of the procedure.\n\nYour surgeon will determine the best type of anesthesia for you based on factors such as the complexity of the procedure, your medical history, and your level of anxiety. You should discuss your preferences with the surgeon and ask any questions you have about the anesthesia.\n\nIt's also a good idea to have a friend or family member present during the procedure to provide support and comfort. They can stay with you in the waiting room or the recovery area and be there when you wake up.\n\nFinally, try to relax and take deep breaths during the procedure. This can help calm your nerves and make the experience more comfortable.<>medicine