Everyone says to not say a word when you are arrested . Why is this ? What can I say that will be used against me in court ? How could \" I did n't do it \" , or other phrases be used against me in court ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Because cops are trained to elicit statements from you , for better or worse , they 're cued up on your behavior \/ conduct ( brother - in - law is a cop , have been on three ride - alongs ) . If approached by a cop YOU ASK THEM : \" Am I free to leave ? \" MAKE THEM answer the question , they 'll dodge it . If and when they say \" Yes , you are free to leave . \" LEAVE . Asking that question and subsequently walking away DOES NOT \/ CANNOT constitutionally create suspicion to fuel Reasonable Suspicion , etc . ( Even though a cop will think \" WTF \" . ) Cops can approach you for ANY reason , just to make small talk . If that small talk leads to articulable facts of Reasonable Suspicion , then good on them , bad on you . Having said this , I bet only the most cop - hating person could actually pull this off - we 're trained socially to obey authority ( Cops know this , and use it to their advantage ) . ( Parentheticals suck , too . ) If you ask \" Am I free to leave ? \" And a cop says \" No \" you are probably being detained for investigatory purposes but not under arrest - DON'T SAY A FUCKING WORD TO THEM ( I actually really like cops and still live by this . ) Cops have to * Mirandize * you if Custodial Interrogation is present - Custody meaning a reasonable person would not feel free to leave and Interrogation , roughly asking you questions designed to elicit incriminating responses . Cops can ask you your name , where you live , that 's not interrogation for * Miranda * purposes . The reason you have a right to a lawyer is because you do n't know the legal system and it would be unfair to fuck you over for something you do n't know about , essentially , you are at a disadvantage - whether or not you are educated , whatever that means - to the cop who does this exact type of questioning hundreds if not thousands of times a year . Furthermore , cops do n't have any duty to explain to you what your rights are . The problem is , arrestees think they can outsmart the cops and end up talking themselves right into incarceration . As a future public defender friend of mine once said , \" the best advice you can give your defendant - client is \" Shut the fuck up . And let me do the talking . \" If you are arrested and subsequently * Mirandized * note the following : Your 5th Amendment Right To Remain Silent must be expressed UNEQUIVOCALLY - you actually have to say out loud \" I want to remain silent . \" As to your right to have an attorney , say it UNEQUIVOCALLY \" I WANT TO SPEAK TO A \/ MY LAWYER . \" That phrase will cut off , constitutionally speaking , any further questions for the time being - subject to some nuances later on down the line . Even if you say \" I think I 'd like to talk to a lawyer \" to a cop , the cop has no duty to explain to you that you have to ask unequivocally - in fact , he or she probably wo n't even ask what you mean by that but just keep interrogating you . When talking to cops do n't say \" I think \" or \" Maybe I \" or \" My dad said I should get a lawyer \" none of that equals \" I WANT TO TALK TO A LAWYER . \" I could go on forever with multiple scenarios of when you have n't been * Mirandized * but are still being subjected to Custodial Interrogation - for example , if cops have a valid arrest warrant for you , come into your house , catch you sleeping in your bed and they are in your room and start asking you questions , you 're in custody . Conversely , if you voluntarily go into a police station because they asked you to come in to answer questions , and you answer those questions in a fashion that fucks you over , that 's NOT custody , you were there voluntarily , even if you were asked these questions in an interrogation room . It 's also a good idea to stay mum because even though your words might be rendered inadmissible against you in the prosecution 's case , physical evidence ( the smoking gun , the spliff ) gained from an illegal confession will be admissible ( certain nuances there , but that 's the general rule ) against your bumbling ass . tl;dr - say you want to remain silent , say you want to speak to your lawyer . As my public defender - bound friend says \" Let the government prove their burden . \" ( Let THEM do the work , do n't do it for them . ) Lastly , do n't commit crimes , that 's bad .<>It is generally a good idea to remain silent when you are arrested because anything you say can be used against you in court. This means that if you make any statements to the police, they can be used as evidence against you. For example, if you say \"I didn't do it,\" this statement could be used to show that you were aware that you were accused of a crime and were denying it. Similarly, if you make any other statements that are incriminating or could be interpreted as an admission of guilt, these could also be used against you in court. One important thing to remember is that you have the right to remain silent when you are arrested, and you should exercise this right. This means that you do not have to answer any questions from the police or make any statements. If you are arrested, you should calmly and politely tell the police that you are exercising your right to remain silent and that you would like to speak to a lawyer. It is important to remember that anything you say to the police can be used against you, so it is generally best to remain silent until you have a chance to speak to a lawyer.<>reddit_eli5