The Anarcho - capitalist movement I do n't fully understand what they believe in , government wise . Any clarification is greatly appreciated ! Explain like I'm five.<>AnCaps believe in no government . They do n't like any kind of violence , unless in selfdefense . They think that taxes and laws are upheld by the guns of the government . If you do n't pay your taxes , or the fees for paying them too late , some day a police officer will come knocking on your door to get your money or property of the same value . If you do n't open your door , he will break into your house . If you ask him to leave , he will refuse . If you try to get him to leave your home ( cause it 's your home and you have n't harmed anyone , so he has no right to break in ) or stop him when he is stealing your things , he will arrest you . And if you resist you will get shot . Ancaps do not like this kind of aggressive violence . They want people to cooperate peacefully , without using guns , violence and threats . And because taxes are extracted using guns , violence and threats , AnCaps do not like taxes , and without taxes there can be no government . EDIT : Here is a very easy to understand 8 minute video explaining ancap ideology : URL_0<>Anarcho-capitalists are a type of libertarian who believe that the best form of government is no government at all. They believe that individuals should be free to do as they please as long as they do not harm others or their property. They believe that the market, rather than the government, should be the main way that society is organized. This means that people would be able to buy and sell goods and services with each other, and private businesses would provide things like protection, dispute resolution, and other services that are typically provided by the government. Anarcho-capitalists believe that this would create a more efficient and fair society, because people would be able to choose the products and services that they want, rather than being forced to accept what the government decides.<>reddit_eli5