Interest on self assessment tax<>Assuming you are Resident Indian. As per Indian Income Tax  As per section 208 every person whose estimated tax liability for the year exceeds Rs.   10,000, shall pay his tax in advance in the form of “advance tax”. Thus, any taxpayer   whose estimated tax liability for the year exceeds Rs. 10,000 has to pay his tax in   advance by the due dates prescribed in this regard. However, as per section 207, a   resident senior citizen (i.e., an individual of the age of 60 years or above) not having any income from business or profession is not liable to pay advance tax.   In other words, if a person satisfies the following conditions, he will not be liable to pay advance tax:   Hence only self assessment tax need to be paid without any interest. Refer the full guideline on Income tax website<>In the United Kingdom, self assessment tax is a system used to collect income tax from individuals and businesses that are not otherwise taxed through the PAYE (Pay As You Earn) system. If you are required to file a self assessment tax return, you may be charged interest on any tax that you owe if you do not pay it by the due date. The interest rate for unpaid tax is set by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and is reviewed periodically.If you are required to file a self assessment tax return and you owe tax, you will need to pay the tax by the deadline in order to avoid incurring interest charges. The deadline for paying self assessment tax is usually 31 January, following the end of the tax year in which the income was earned. If you cannot pay the full amount by the deadline, you should contact HMRC to arrange a payment plan.If you are charged interest on unpaid self assessment tax, you may be able to claim relief on the interest if you have a good reason for not being able to pay the tax on time. For example, if you have experienced unexpected financial hardship or if you have been unable to pay the tax due to an error or mistake on your tax return, you may be able to claim relief.It is important to note that the interest charges on unpaid self assessment tax are separate from any penalties that may be imposed for late payment or failure to file a tax return. If you have any questions about self assessment tax or the interest charges associated with it, you should contact HMRC or a tax professional for advice.<>finance