If nurses have to be so careful not to oversedate patients , why is it so hard for executioners to overdose a prisoner ? What I mean is , why are there so many botched executions ? Could n't be the vein every time , could it ? Please explain like I'm five.<>A conventional lethal injection protocol consists of thiopentone , pancuronium and potassium chloride . Either of those is pretty much guaranteed to be lethal on its own , as long as it is given intravenously . Unfortunately , both thiopentone and potassium chloride are extremely irritant and painful when injected into subcutaneous tissue . They get into trouble in executions because executioners are terrible at obtaining intravenous access . They inject these drugs into an incorrectly placed cannula , so instead of killing the prisoner they give him an excruciatingly painful burn around the injection site .<>Execution by lethal injection is a complex medical procedure that requires careful planning and execution to be carried out correctly. There are many factors that can contribute to a botched execution, including issues with the execution protocol, problems with the administration of the drugs, and difficulties finding suitable veins for injection.One of the main challenges of executing a prisoner by lethal injection is finding a suitable vein for the injection. The veins of some prisoners may be damaged or otherwise difficult to access, which can make it difficult to administer the drugs. Additionally, the drugs used in lethal injection can cause the veins to collapse, which can also make it difficult to inject the drugs.There are also other factors that can contribute to a botched execution. For example, the execution team may not follow the correct protocol for administering the drugs, or there may be problems with the drugs themselves, such as if they are not stored or handled properly.In general, executing a prisoner by lethal injection requires a high level of skill and expertise, and there are many things that can go wrong. This is why it is so important for execution teams to be well-trained and to follow all of the appropriate protocols and procedures.<>reddit_eli5