How do laser thermometers work ? I swear it 's magic Please explain like I'm five.
There 's a thing called [ black - body radiation ] ( URL_0 ) . In a nutshell , everything is always slowly cooling down by emitting photons , and the wavelength of the emitted photons is determined by an object 's temperature . At high temperatures , the photons are in the visible spectrum . You see this in things like yellow - hot metal in a forge , or the orange of a candle flame ( which is super - heated soot particles ) . But cooler things still emit photons , and they 're just down in the infra - red spectrum , which we ca n't see , but we can construct machines to detect . A laser thermometer simply measures the wavelength of infrared light being emitted by objects , which corresponds with the object 's temperature . The laser is n't even part of the process ; it 's just there to provide a visual cue as to where the sensor is pointed , so you know what it is that you 're measuring the temperature of .
Laser thermometers work by using a laser to measure the temperature of an object. The laser thermometer sends out a laser beam, which bounces off the object and returns to the thermometer. The thermometer measures the amount of heat that the object gives off, and uses this information to calculate the object's temperature. It's not magic, but it might seem like it because it can measure the temperature of something without touching it! This can be very useful in situations where you don't want to touch the object, or when it's too hot or cold to touch. Here's an example of how it works: 1. The laser thermometer sends out a laser beam. 2. The laser beam hits the object and bounces back to the thermometer. 3. The thermometer measures the amount of heat that the object gives off. 4. The thermometer calculates the object's temperature based on the amount of heat it gives off. Laser thermometers are very accurate and can measure temperatures from a distance, making them very useful in many different situations.
reddit_eli5
