NAFTA - if it 's so bad , why was it passed and why has n't it been repealed ? An explanation of the motivations and meanings of the agreement itself would also be appreciated . Explain like I'm five.<>NAFTA stands for the North American Free Trade Agreement and basically it says that members of North America ( Mexico , Canada , and the US ) ca n't place any barriers on trade ( i.e. ca n't restrict trade in any way ) , including * tariffs * ( taxes on imports ) . Some people seem to think that NAFTA is bad because some companies can then move their manufacturing to Mexico where the standard of living is cheaper , and therefore can pay their workers less , which results in the loss of American jobs . Proponents for NAFTA point to the fact that 709,988 jobs were created domestically over the first 5 years of the agreement . Another problem is the some feel that the US is cheating by subsidizing US farmers so much . Doing so theoretically eliminates Mexican competition who can not possibly compete on price . * * SOURCES * * URL_1 URL_0<>NAFTA, or the North American Free Trade Agreement, is a trade agreement between the United States, Canada, and Mexico. It was signed into law in 1993 and went into effect in 1994. The main goal of NAFTA was to reduce tariffs (taxes on imported goods) and other trade barriers between the three countries, which would make it easier and cheaper for businesses to buy and sell goods and services across national borders. This was supposed to help create new jobs and boost economic growth in all three countries. There have been a lot of different opinions about the benefits and drawbacks of NAFTA. Some people believe that it has helped create new jobs and increased economic growth, while others believe that it has led to the loss of jobs and harmed certain industries in all three countries. Despite these differing opinions, NAFTA has not been repealed because it has been in place for a long time and many businesses and industries in the three countries have become reliant on it. Changing or repealing the agreement would be a major change that could have significant consequences for these businesses and industries, so it is not something that is done lightly.<>reddit_eli5