IQs and IQ tests . How do they come up with that number , what exactly is the test all about , and what does that number mean ? Explain like I'm five.<>IQ tests test the \" classical \" intelligence : logical thinking and reasoning , and verbal skills . These are used because they are considered the more practical types of intelligence , intelligence being the ability to perceive patterns and apply them to different situations for optimum results . So an IQ test will , most of the time , tell you that yes , someone is intelligent in a general sense . However , IQ tests can not measure other relevant things . For instance , how is it possible that Albert Einstein had a measure IQ of around 164 ( high genius level ) but was widely respected by his peers , some of which had much higher IQs of 180 + ( profoundly genius levels ) , such as Wolfgang Pauli , Werner Heisenberg and Neils Bohr ? Because Einsten was incredibly creative and had a keen , profound intuition , things which can not be measured in IQ tests . Let 's go further and compare Einstein to another genius : Michael Jordan . Who knows more physics , Einstein or Jordan ? They are both capable of correctly interpreting the strength , speed and angle necessary for a ball to be thrown into a hoop , but through completely different means . Einsten would be able to calculate it , Jordan would be able to do it , and neither would be able to replicate the results of the other . Jordan knows it on a physical level ( kinesthetic intelligence ) and Einsten knows it on a rational level . An IQ test ca n't measure Jordan , like it ca n't measure Mozart or Van Gogh .<>IQ, or intelligence quotient, is a score that is used to measure a person's cognitive abilities or intelligence. It is calculated using a standardized test, which is a set of questions or tasks that are designed to measure certain skills and abilities. There are many different types of IQ tests, but most of them include questions that test a person's logical reasoning, problem-solving skills, and ability to learn new information. Some tests may also include questions that measure verbal ability, such as vocabulary and language skills, and others may include questions that measure spatial ability, such as the ability to manipulate shapes and solve puzzles. To calculate the IQ score, the test taker's raw score (the number of correct answers) is compared to the scores of other people who have taken the same test. The raw score is then converted into an IQ score using a formula, which takes into account the age of the test taker and the average score of other people in the same age group. An IQ score can range from 0 to 200, but most people score between 70 and 130. A score of 100 is considered average. A score above 130 is considered high, while a score below 70 is considered low. However, it's important to remember that IQ is just one measure of intelligence and that there are many other ways to be smart and successful in life.<>reddit_eli5