Why do mayo containers ( Among other things ) needs to be refrigerated only after they are opened ? Is it something about the air contact with the product ? What about juices ? Will it be okay to eat \/ drink even if its not cold ? Explain like I'm five.<>Before opening , the jar is sealed to preserve it so bacteria and oxygen ca n't get in , after opening oxygen and dust particles containing bacteria and mold spores get in and in warm temperatures these bacteria 's grow extremely fast . The refrigeration does n't stop this rather slows it down to keep the food safe enough for human consumption for a few weeks .<>Mayonnaise is made from oil, eggs, and vinegar, which can spoil if they are not kept in the right conditions. When mayonnaise is in a container that is sealed, it is protected from air, moisture, and bacteria, which can cause it to spoil. Once the container is opened, however, the mayonnaise is exposed to these elements, which can cause it to spoil more quickly. That is why it is important to keep mayonnaise in the refrigerator after it has been opened.\r\n\r\nJuices can also spoil if they are not kept in the right conditions. Some juices, such as orange juice, contain a lot of natural sugars, which can provide a good environment for bacteria to grow. Other juices, such as apple juice, contain a lot of natural acids, which can help to preserve the juice and keep it from spoiling. However, it is still important to store juices in the refrigerator after they have been opened, to help keep them fresh and prevent the growth of bacteria.\r\n\r\nIf you eat or drink something that has spoiled, it can make you sick. That is why it is important to keep perishable foods, like mayonnaise and juices, in the refrigerator to help keep them fresh and safe to eat.<>Mayonnaise is made from oil, eggs, and vinegar, which can spoil if they are not kept in the right conditions. When mayonnaise is in a container that is sealed, it is protected from air, moisture, and bacteria, which can cause it to spoil. Once the container is opened, however, the mayonnaise is exposed to these elements, which can cause it to spoil more quickly. That is why it is important to keep mayonnaise in the refrigerator after it has been opened.\r\n\r\nJuices can also spoil if they are not kept in the right conditions. Some juices, such as orange juice, contain a lot of natural sugars, which can provide a good environment for bacteria to grow. Other juices, such as apple juice, contain a lot of natural acids, which can help to preserve the juice and keep it from spoiling. However, it is still important to store juices in the refrigerator after they have been opened, to help keep them fresh and prevent the growth of bacteria.\r\n\r\nIf you eat or drink something that has spoiled, it can make you sick. That is why it is important to keep perishable foods, like mayonnaise and juices, in the refrigerator to help keep them fresh and safe to eat.<>reddit_eli5