Are junk bonds advisable to be inside a bond portfolio that has the objective of generating stable income for a retiree?<>Junk Bonds (aka High Yield bonds) are typically those bonds from issues with credit ratings below BBB-. Not all such companies are big risks. They are just less financially sound than other, higher rated, companies. If you are not comfortable doing the analysis yourself, you should consider investing in a mutual fund, ETF, or unit trust that invests in high yield bonds. You get access to \"better quality\" issues because a huge amount of the debt markets goes to the institutional channels, not to the retail markets. High yield (junk) bonds can make up a part of your portfolio, and are a good source of regular income. As always, you should diversify and not have everything you own in one asset class. There are no real rules of thumb for asset allocation -- it all depends on your risk tolerance, goals, time horizon, and needs. If you don't trust yourself to make wise decisions, consult with a professional whom you trust.<>Junk bonds, also known as high-yield bonds, are bonds that are rated below investment grade by credit rating agencies. They tend to have higher yields than investment-grade bonds, but they also carry higher levels of risk. As a result, they may not be suitable for all investors, particularly those who are looking for a stable income stream.If you are a retiree looking to generate stable income from your bond portfolio, you may want to consider investing in high-quality, investment-grade bonds instead. These bonds tend to have lower yields than junk bonds, but they also have lower levels of risk. They may be a better choice for investors who are seeking a dependable source of income and are not as willing to take on higher levels of risk.It's important to carefully consider your investment objectives, risk tolerance, and financial situation before making any investment decisions. It may be a good idea to consult with a financial advisor or professional to help you determine the best investment strategy for your needs.<>finance