Why are there so few blue foods in nature ? Luke Skywalker 's aunt gave him blue milk . Where 's our blue food ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Blue food is a rare occurrence in nature . There are no leafy blue vegetables ( blue lettuce ? ) , no blue meats ( blueburger , well - done please ) , and aside from blueberries and a few blue - purple potatoes from remote spots on the globe , blue just does n't exist in any significant quantity as a natural food color . Consequently , we do n't have an automatic appetite response to blue . Furthermore , our primal nature avoids food that are poisonous . A million years ago , when our earliest ancestors were foraging for food , blue , purple and black were \" color warning signs \" of potentially lethal food . Most plant life contains a combination of chlorophyll , keratins and anthocyanins in some combination ( plus other things , of course ) . Chlorophyll makes things appear green . Keratins make things appear red , yellow or orange . Anthocyanins have a wider scope and can reflect back reds , purples , yellows , magentas and blues . Pretty much , how an anthocyanin displays colour depends on the pH of the soil \/ air around the plant .<>There are actually a few blue foods in nature! Some examples include blueberries, blue potatoes, and blue corn. However, these foods are not very common and are not as well-known as other colors of foods like red, yellow, and green. One reason there may not be as many blue foods is because the color blue is not as common in nature as other colors. Many plants and animals use colors like red, yellow, and green to attract pollinators or to protect themselves from predators. Blue is not as commonly used for these purposes. In addition, it can be difficult to create blue food coloring from natural sources. Many blue food colorings are made from synthetic chemicals or are derived from blueberries, which can be expensive to grow and harvest in large quantities. So, while there are a few blue foods in nature, they may not be as common or as well-known as other colors of food. But that doesn't mean we can't enjoy them!<>reddit_eli5