What is the difference between running your bank card as credit , or running it as debit ? I can not figure out what the difference is . Explain like I'm five.<>They use different clearing systems , even though the money in the end comes from the same place ( your checking account ) . I 'll tell the story , not necessarily in exact order , but the two clearing systems developed separately . Everything I know comes from running a point of sale system for a small independent store and doing some research into how things work . First there were credit cards - BankAmericard , MasterCharge , Diner 's Club . You were borrowing money when you used them . The card company paid the merchant , you paid the card company . Banks got into the game by issuing their own cards , branded with the credit card logo . At first it all happened with pieces of paper and voice phone calls . Eventually the system became automated and virtually instant . Somewhere along the way the banks developed a separate system : debits , meaning they debited the money straight from your checking account , instead of crediting the money out of a charge account . A separate but related clearing system was developed , with lower overall fees . Taking the money straight from you account lowered the risk for everyone , and fees are generally lower because of that . But debit cards were set up to also be able to use the original credit clearing system , for stores that were n't set up to do debits . The fees for each type of transaction work differently . Debit fees are often a modest flat fee , plus a rather small percentage . Credit fees are a smaller flat fee , but a larger percentage of the transaction . Reward cards carry an even higher percentage fee ... that 's how the bank gives you the rewards . At my store , a $ 100 purchase as a debit costs us about $ .35 , but the same purchase on the same rewards card run as a credit might cost us almost $ 2 . You as a customer never see that .<>When you use your bank card to make a purchase, you have two options: you can run the card as credit or you can run it as debit. Here is the difference between the two:\n\nRunning the card as credit: When you run your card as credit, you are borrowing money from the bank to make the purchase. You will typically have to pay interest on this borrowed money if you don't pay it back right away. This option is similar to using a credit card.\n\nRunning the card as debit: When you run your card as debit, you are using your own money that is in your bank account to make the purchase. You do not have to pay interest on this money because you are not borrowing it from the bank. This option is similar to using a check or cash.\n\nSo, the main difference between running your card as credit or debit is whether you are borrowing money from the bank or using your own money to make the purchase.<>reddit_eli5