How were TV effects ( like title overlays ) done live before digital video and computers ? Were they all drawn frame - by - frame by artists or was there some other common method ? Please explain like I'm five.<>If you are talking about live graphics on television , then they used luma keying . The title would be printed on a black background and shot with a camera . A video switcher would take out the darkest colors , leaving a \" hole \" ( called a key ) in the video for another video source to show through . This was all accomplished with analog equipment . It can still be done with digital switchers today , although graphics playback machines output a specific \" key \" signal which the switcher uses to make the hole in the video .<>Before digital video and computers, TV effects like title overlays were created using a variety of techniques. One common method was to use physical templates or cards with the desired text or graphics printed on them. These cards could then be placed in front of the camera lens, either by hand or using a mechanical system, and filmed as part of the live broadcast. Another technique involved using a special camera called a chroma key or \"blue screen\" camera. This camera was able to film a subject in front of a solid-colored background, usually blue or green. The camera would then be able to \"key out\" the solid color and superimpose the filmed subject over a different video or image, creating the illusion that the subject was in a different location or setting. Both of these techniques required careful planning and coordination to execute smoothly, as any mistakes or misalignments would be immediately visible to the TV audience. They were also time-consuming and labor-intensive, as each effect had to be created manually, either by placing physical cards or by setting up and filming with the chroma key camera. With the advent of digital video and computers, it became much easier and more efficient to create TV effects like title overlays. Today, these effects can be created using software and added to a video in post-production, allowing for more flexibility and precision.<>reddit_eli5