Is numbness in the left leg an early sign of heart disease?Hi. At times I feel a strange sensation, like a numbing vibration that goes down my left leg. Sometimes these are constant and lasts a while and other times I feel this only a few times and always when relaxing. Since it is on my left side I m worried it may have something to do with my heart. Have you heard of this before? It is not painful, just very strange.<>Hello and Welcome to ‘Ask A Doctor’ service. I have reviewed your query and here is my advice. I would explain that the numbness on your left leg does not seem to be related to any cardiac disorders. It could be related to a pinched nerve or partial epilepsy seizures. For this reason, I would recommend consulting with a neurologist for a physical exam and some tests:- a resting ECG- a lumbar spine X-ray study for possible bulging disc in this region- nerve conduction studies. If suspicions of seizures are raised, an EEG may be needed. You should discuss with your doctor on the above tests. Hope to have been helpful! Kind regards, Dr. Iliri<>Numbness in your leg can be caused by a variety of factors and is not necessarily a sign of heart disease. However, it is important to mention any unusual sensations or symptoms to your doctor, as they can be a sign of an underlying health condition that needs to be addressed.\n\nThere are many possible causes of numbness in the leg, including nerve compression or irritation, muscle strain or injury, and poor circulation. It is also possible that the numbness you are experiencing is unrelated to your heart or any other specific medical condition.\n\nIt is important to see a doctor if you are experiencing numbness in your leg, especially if it is accompanied by other symptoms such as weakness, tingling, pain, or changes in sensation. Your doctor can help determine the cause of your symptoms and recommend appropriate treatment. It is also important to make sure that you are taking care of your overall health by eating a healthy diet, getting regular exercise, and not smoking.<>medicine