What is the best way to lucid dream ? I 've never been able to lucid dream , and it seems like many redditors have , so I want to know how you guys do it . Please explain like I'm five.<>Okay , so I think everyone is different . For me personally , when I 'm nervous or stressed I tend to get a higher than average instances of sleep paralysis . When that happens , it 's instant lucid dreaming . I wake up , still half asleep , unable to move . I drop myself back into the dream world by attempting to sleep again . At that point , I will still be conscious that I 'm dreaming , and in a full lucid dream . The problem at that point , is staying in the dream and not waking up . In order to do that , focus on your dream body , some people try to feel through their dream body , others rub their hands together . Do whatever you need to , in order to keep your consciousness attached to the dream body . And ... tada ... super super simple lucid dreaming .<>Lucid dreaming is the act of being aware that you are dreaming while you are in a dream. Here are some tips for inducing a lucid dream: \n1. Keep a dream journal: Write down your dreams as soon as you wake up in the morning. This will help you become more familiar with your own dream patterns and symbols, which can increase your chances of becoming aware that you are dreaming. \n2. Reality checks: During the day, periodically ask yourself if you are dreaming or awake. This will help train your brain to question its reality while you are dreaming, which can increase your chances of becoming lucid. \n3. Set an intention: Before you go to sleep, tell yourself that you want to have a lucid dream. This can help plant the seed in your subconscious mind and increase the likelihood of a lucid dream. \n4. Wake up and go back to sleep: If you wake up in the middle of the night, try to go back to sleep. This is a good time to have a lucid dream because your mind is in a state of transition between wakefulness and sleep. \nRemember, it can take some time and practice to successfully have a lucid dream. Be patient and keep trying different techniques until you find what works best for you.<>reddit_eli5