How can someone invent a new math ? What does the math do ? Coming from someone who struggled with maths at school , is n't maths numbers and equations ? How can you invent a new number ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Mathematics is all about representing the world around us . Here 's an example of how a whole new branch of math was invented : Study the symmetry of objects . Then figure out all the different possible ways you can achieve symmetry , rotational symmetry , reflections , etc . Then you turn those symmetries into elements which comprise groups . That 's the basis for group theory . So you 're not inventing new numbers , you are inventing new ways of thinking about certain concepts . For example , we can model the trajectory of a projectile using a parabola , but we are n't born with that knowledge . Someone had to look at the world around us and imagine that motion could be described with numbers and symbols . And someone else imagined that symmetry can be described with numbers and symbols . And so forth .<>Inventing new math is a very creative process that involves coming up with new ideas and concepts, and then finding ways to express those ideas using mathematical language. This can involve coming up with new symbols and rules for manipulating those symbols, as well as new ways of thinking about and understanding mathematical concepts. One way to invent new math is to start with a problem or question that you want to solve, and then try to find a mathematical way to solve it. For example, if you wanted to figure out how to measure the area of a circle, you might start by drawing a circle and trying to come up with a formula for calculating its area. Another way to invent new math is to start with a set of ideas or concepts that you find interesting or useful, and then try to find ways to express those ideas using math. For example, if you were interested in the concept of infinity, you might try to come up with a mathematical way to describe and understand it. So, to answer your question, math is not just numbers and equations, it is also a way of thinking and a way of understanding the world around us. And just like people can invent new words or ideas in other fields, they can also invent new math to help them better understand and describe the world we live in.<>Inventing new math is a very creative process that involves coming up with new ideas and concepts, and then finding ways to express those ideas using mathematical language. This can involve coming up with new symbols and rules for manipulating those symbols, as well as new ways of thinking about and understanding mathematical concepts. One way to invent new math is to start with a problem or question that you want to solve, and then try to find a mathematical way to solve it. For example, if you wanted to figure out how to measure the area of a circle, you might start by drawing a circle and trying to come up with a formula for calculating its area. Another way to invent new math is to start with a set of ideas or concepts that you find interesting or useful, and then try to find ways to express those ideas using math. For example, if you were interested in the concept of infinity, you might try to come up with a mathematical way to describe and understand it. So, to answer your question, math is not just numbers and equations, it is also a way of thinking and a way of understanding the world around us. And just like people can invent new words or ideas in other fields, they can also invent new math to help them better understand and describe the world we live in.<>reddit_eli5