Why has n't the War on Poverty helped America ? Also , I realize that poverty has gone down some , but we 've spent a lot of money and only gone down that much ? Explain like I'm five.<>The War on Poverty is a figurehead term , like the War on Drugs , that does n't point to any one piece of legislation or program . It 's a collection of programs each with varying success or failure , that are influenced , helped , or hurt by competing legislation and programs or by political will of what party happens to be influential at any any given time . To a degree , it has worked surprisingly well when it was allowed to . But unfortunately , politics and special interests have wormed their way into the works and programs have been cut or funds diverted to where they do n't do any good . Just looking at the last few years , politicians ( especially Republicans ) have pushed to cut access to clinics ( especially women 's clinics ) , food stamps , welfare , Head Start , PBS , and countless other programs that the poor depend on .<>The War on Poverty was a set of policies and programs that were implemented in the United States starting in the 1960s with the goal of reducing poverty and improving the economic well-being of low-income Americans. While these efforts have helped many people, poverty remains a persistent problem in the United States.\r\n\r\nThere are several reasons why the War on Poverty has not completely eliminated poverty in the United States. One reason is that the root causes of poverty are complex and multifaceted. Poverty can be caused by a variety of factors, including unemployment, low wages, inadequate education and job training, lack of affordable housing, and poor health. It is difficult to address all of these issues with a single set of policies or programs.\r\n\r\nAnother reason is that the War on Poverty has faced significant challenges and limitations. For example, some of the programs have not been well-funded or have not been implemented effectively. Additionally, the economic and political landscape has changed significantly over the past several decades, which has made it difficult to maintain the progress that has been made.\r\n\r\nDespite these challenges, the War on Poverty has had some success in reducing poverty and improving the lives of low-income Americans. For example, poverty rates in the United States have declined significantly since the 1960s, and many people have benefited from the programs and services that have been put in place to help them. However, much more work needs to be done to address poverty and ensure that all Americans have the opportunity to achieve economic stability and prosperity.<>reddit_eli5