How do mouses and monitors communicate with each other ? I mean , how do I click on things that do n't have a physical form ? Why is it that a small move of the mouse translates to a much larger movement by the cursor ? Explain like I'm five.<>In short , your mouse and monitor do n't communicate directly with each other ... The graphics chip in your computer sends data to your monitor to tell it what to display . The monitor does n't really process any of this , it just uses the data to decide what colour each pixel should be . Your mouse does the opposite . When you move it or click the buttons , it generates signals which are sent to your computer . The mouse itself does n't know where it is on the screen , or whether it is clicking an icon , or how far or fast it is moving - it just knows \" I 'm moving left \" , or \" My left button was clicked \" . It 's the computer 's job - primarily the Operating System - to decide what to do with the mouse information . It will use the data to decide where the mouse is on the screen , and will incorporate that data into what is being sent to the monitor . So really , the monitor and the mouse have very little to do with each other . One takes input and gives it to the computer , the other takes output from the computer and displays it to the user .<>When you move your mouse, it sends a signal to the computer telling it how much and in which direction the mouse has moved. The computer then translates this movement into a corresponding movement of the cursor on the screen. The cursor is just a visual representation of where you are pointing with your mouse on the screen. It's like when you point at something with your finger - the cursor is like your finger, but on the screen. So when you move your mouse a little bit, the cursor moves a lot on the screen because the screen is much larger than the mouse pad. It's like when you hold your finger close to your face and move it just a little bit - it looks like it's moving a lot, because your finger is close to your eyes and the background is far away. When you click on something with your mouse, you are actually pressing a button on the mouse. This sends a signal to the computer telling it that you want to \"click\" on something. The computer then looks at where the cursor is on the screen and \"clicks\" on whatever is there, just as if you had pressed your finger on the screen.<>reddit_eli5