how do we fall asleep ? What is the chemical or physiological process through which we fall asleep . I understand hormones and melatonin are involved , but how do we transition from lying in bed with our eyes closed to actual sleep and dreaming ? Explain like I'm five.<>Much of the research on sleep involves EEGs , or Electroencephalography , which involves recording electrical activity on one 's head . Other electrodes can also be used to monitor other aspects of the body , such as heart rate , respiration , or skin conductance during sleep . We can physiologically characterize sleep based on different waveforms going on in the brain . When we are * * Awake * * , EEGs show two different patterns of activity , which we can call A activity and B activity ( short for alpha and beta ) . A activity shows up as medium - frequency waves , and occurs when we are at rest ( but awake ) , sort of just hanging out not really doing anything . B activity consists of irregular , low amplitude waves , and shows up when we are alert and attentive to things in our environment , or thinking actively . Now when we go to sleep , we start to get drowsy and enter * * Stage 1 sleep * * , characterized by T activity ( theta ) , which is really a transition from sleep to wakefulness . Your eyes are rolling , and eyelids may slowly open and close . 10 minutes later you 'll enter * * Stage 2 sleep * * , where the EEG is irregular but has some T activity , but also is characterized by sleep spindles and K complexes , which are two other waveforms we can distinguish in Stage 2 ( especially K complexes , which are also the forerunners of Delta waves , which show up in deep sleep ) . K complexes are like sharp wave spikes ( like a big ocean wave ) in an otherwise lower ocean of waveforms . So you 're definitely asleep now ( in the example , hopefully not from reading!) ... if you were awoken now , you probably would deny that you have actually been asleep for around 15 - 30 minutes ! You are entering * * Stage 3 sleep * * now , characterized by the occurrence of D activity ( delta ) , where the theta waves are really startin ' a rockin ' , large amplitudes , big crashing theta waves . * * Stage 4 sleep * * , or slow wave sleep , contains only D activity . This goes on for a few more minutes , and then , about 90 minutes after the beginning of sleep , we notice a crazy change : the EEG becomes very desynchronized , which only a few theta waves , and it actually starts to look like Stage 1 , or even like being awake ! The EEG ( or other measures , like the EOG or EMG , for eye movement or muscle activity ) become very silent . The person becomes somewhat paralyzed here , and the cornea in the eye produces a big bulge that can be seen to move about ( by the EOG ) . This time is what is referred to as * * REM sleep * * . The odd thing about REM ( rapid eye movement ; stages 1 - 4 are called non - rem sleep , btw ) sleep is that while this is the time where people report having the most vivid , narrative , story - like dreams , the EEG looks like we 're awake ! If you were woken up in Stage 3 - 4 , you might not report having been dreaming , but this is the deepest sleep stage , and it will be hard to wake you up ( and you will be very groggy ! ) During the rest of the night you will alternate between REM and non - REM sleep , with each cycle being AROUND 90 minutes long , with 20 - 30 minute bouts of REM sleep . So an 8 - hour sleep cycle will have 4 - 5 periods of REM sleep , and periods of REM sleep INCREASE as the night goes on , while periods of slow - wave sleep ( stage 4 especially ) , tend to only occur in the early hours of the night . See [ images for examples . ] ( URL_0 ) [ Sleep waves ] ( URL_1 )<>Falling asleep is a complex process that involves several chemical and physiological changes in the body. Here's a simple explanation of how it works: When you lie down in bed and close your eyes, your body starts to relax. This is because the brain releases a hormone called melatonin, which makes you feel drowsy and helps you fall asleep. As you relax, your body's temperature starts to drop and your heart rate and breathing slow down. These changes help your body prepare for sleep. At the same time, your brain begins to produce alpha waves, which are a type of brain wave that is associated with relaxation. As you fall deeper into sleep, your brain begins to produce slower, deeper brain waves called delta waves. As your body and mind relax, you begin to drift off into sleep. You may have dreams or other experiences while you sleep, which are caused by the brain's activity during sleep. So, to sum it up, falling asleep is a process that involves several chemical and physiological changes in the body that help you relax and drift off into sleep.<>reddit_eli5