How come fat people are n't extremely strong ? They carry extra weight all the time . Taking in consideration that weight training builds muscle by excersicing muscles , why do n't fat people become extremely strong individuals , seeing that they 're always carrying extra weight ? Explain like I'm five.<>I think there are misconceptions about fat people . As someone who has dissected a large number of human cadavers , take my word . Fat people have more muscle than their skinny counterparts . However , there are two general types of muscle . Slow , long acting muscle and fast explosive type muscle . Fat people have their fat all day , thus they develop hypertrophied slow muscles , while not necessarily developing their fast muscles . Therefore they may not have the fast musculature necessary to perform classic feats of strength such as arm - wrestling or carrying very heavy things . Of course fat people who work out a lot ( e.g. football players ) are working out with a heavier burden and as a result , they will develop their fast type muscles quicker than scrawny people .<>Carrying extra weight doesn't necessarily make you stronger because muscles need to be actively trained in order to become stronger. Just carrying around extra weight doesn't give your muscles the type of stimulation they need to grow and become stronger.\r\n\r\nThink of it like this: if you want to get better at running, you need to practice running. Just walking around all the time isn't enough to make you a better runner. Similarly, if you want to get stronger, you need to do exercises that challenge and stimulate your muscles to grow.\r\n\r\nIt's also worth noting that being overweight or obese can actually make it harder for some people to do certain exercises, which can make it more difficult for them to build strength. It's important for everyone to maintain a healthy weight and take care of their bodies through exercise and a healthy diet.<>Carrying extra weight doesn't necessarily make you stronger because muscles need to be actively trained in order to become stronger. Just carrying around extra weight doesn't give your muscles the type of stimulation they need to grow and become stronger.\r\n\r\nThink of it like this: if you want to get better at running, you need to practice running. Just walking around all the time isn't enough to make you a better runner. Similarly, if you want to get stronger, you need to do exercises that challenge and stimulate your muscles to grow.\r\n\r\nIt's also worth noting that being overweight or obese can actually make it harder for some people to do certain exercises, which can make it more difficult for them to build strength. It's important for everyone to maintain a healthy weight and take care of their bodies through exercise and a healthy diet.<>reddit_eli5