How is Hubble ( and other ' scopes ) able to take such high resolution photos of nebulae ? like these : URL_0 Explain like I'm five.<>Very long exposures . Also they use different sensors for different parts of the spectrum and then add all of the pictures together . It is not like you or I taking a picture which happens in a second or less . Hubble may look at something for many hours at a time and the do it again on another day and so forth until they have captured enough information to create a picture . The scientists the adjust the image by adding colors to represent the various types of light arriving at the camera . What the picture shows is not what the human eye would see if we had on Hubble telescope glasses . It has been modified to make it easier to see the properties of the object . So basically it is a very long exposure which creates and image that isnthen manipulated to make it more readable by our eyes .<>The Hubble Space Telescope is able to take high resolution photos of nebulae and other celestial objects because it is equipped with powerful lenses and cameras that can capture a lot of detail. These lenses and cameras are able to gather light from distant objects, such as nebulae, and focus it onto a detector, which converts the light into an image.\n\nThe images that the Hubble Space Telescope takes are often very detailed because the telescope is located above the Earth's atmosphere, which can cause distortion and blurriness in images taken from the ground. Without the interference of the Earth's atmosphere, the Hubble Space Telescope is able to take clear, crisp images of distant objects.\n\nAdditionally, the Hubble Space Telescope has been designed to be able to focus on very small areas of the sky at a time, allowing it to capture highly detailed images of specific objects or regions. This is especially useful for studying nebulae, which are often vast clouds of gas and dust that can be difficult to see in great detail from the ground.<>reddit_eli5