Why ca n't we just switch our brains to a new body when our body is dead , so we can live forever ? I know it sounds fucking insane and all , but I was just wondering Explain like I'm five.<>There are two big hurdles : making sure that the brain is still viable after transplant and that doctors can actually re - attach the brain . What modern medicine does know is that approximately 15 - 20 seconds after your heart stops , you lose consciousness . In 10 minutes ( 20 minutes if certain drugs are used ) , your neurons are * damaged * , not dead , from oxygen deprivation . Doctors do not know exactly how long it takes for neurons to die from lack of oxygen , only that extended time without oxygen will cause brain damage and the accompanying physiological results . What * will * kill your brain cells , however , is [ reperfusion injury ] ( URL_0 ) . After cells are deprived of oxygen , the sudden reintroduction of oxygen causes oxidation reactions and release of free radicals ( see the link for a paper on it . ) Now , assuming that the brain is fully intact and functional after being transplanted ( avoiding reperfusion injury and the like ) , the issue is connecting it to the spinal cord . Again , I 'm assuming that there is no damage due to trauma , infection , oxygen deprivation , etc . Currently , there are no successful means of re - establishing the connection to the spinal cord . Even with oxygen reaching the brain and life support for the rest of your new body 's systems , you 'd basically be a ghost in a shell .<>Switching our brains to a new body is currently not possible because it requires a lot of advanced technology and knowledge that we do not yet have. In order to switch our brains to a new body, we would need to be able to connect the brain to the new body in a way that allows it to control the body and receive sensory information from it. We would also need to be able to preserve the brain and keep it functioning after it has been removed from the original body.\r\n\r\nThere are many scientific and technological challenges that would need to be overcome in order to achieve this, and it is not clear if it will ever be possible. Additionally, even if we could switch our brains to new bodies, it is not certain that we would be able to preserve our memories, personality, and other aspects of our identity.\r\n\r\nIn short, while the idea of switching our brains to new bodies might seem appealing, it is not something that is currently possible and may never be possible.<>reddit_eli5