Dad paying for my new home in cash. How can I buy the house from him?<>There are quite some options, but without additional information, I can only provide examples. Last year I had the option to buy a house, but I decided against it because in my area it is getting harder and harder every year to sell it at a reasonable price. But if I had bought a house, my mother would have lent me the money, with me paying it back to her over the years on 3% interest. So it would have been some kind of a private loan. But my mom would never have taken ownership of the house, since it was not her intention to own it in any way. (Does your dad intend to own the house and rent it to you? If yes, and if you are comfortable with renting instead of buying, then this is an option.) The second option, the one we discarded because of the additional cost, is that I could have taken a loan, paying 4.5% interest to the bank, which would then pay under 1% to my mom, and keep the rest. Banks always want to make profit, and this profit has to come from somewhere - from the difference between the interest rates. If your dad has 230k on the bank, and you owe 230k to the bank, you are better off if you keep the bank out - at least as long as your dad is comfortable with lending you money, and you are comfortable with owing him money. (my gf would never borough money from her mother, because her mother would always play the \"you are in my debt\" card - on each and every visit, and whenever she needed help in any way...) So the key is: What does your dad feel comfy with - and what do you feel comfy with. If possible, keep the banks out, but set up a written contract between you and your dad.<>There are a few options you can consider if you want to buy a home that is being paid for in cash by your father. Here are a few options to consider:Purchase the home through a mortgage: One option is to take out a mortgage on the property and pay your father the purchase price in installments. This can be a good option if you have good credit and can qualify for a mortgage with a favorable interest rate.Use a land contract: Another option is to use a land contract, also known as a contract for deed. With a land contract, you would make payments to your father over time, and he would hold the title to the property until the final payment is made. Once the final payment is made, the title would be transferred to you.Use a promissory note: You could also use a promissory note to document the terms of the sale. A promissory note is a written promise to pay a certain amount of money at a specific time or on demand. You could use a promissory note to outline the terms of the sale, including the purchase price, the payment schedule, and any late payment fees.Regardless of which option you choose, it is important to have a written agreement in place to document the terms of the sale and protect both you and your father's interests. It may also be a good idea to consult with an attorney to ensure that the agreement is legally enforceable.<>finance