If we know exactly how cancer begins and we know the process by which it spreads , why are we no closer to eliminating it ? Is timing of treatment the main factor ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Let 's take a step back , what is cancer ? Cancer is when a cell rapidly and uncontrollably replicates , thus forming tumors . Then what causes this rapid division ? A screw up somewhere within the DNA when transcription \/ translation happens . Basically , cancer is a genetic fuck up that causes rapid division , knowing this does n't help us because we have no way to \" treat \" this genetic defect , we ca n't do anything but to kill all the cells suffering from the defect , as someone said below \" we know what causes a Tsunami , yet we ca n't do anything about . \"<>Cancer is a complex disease that can be difficult to treat, even when we know how it starts and how it spreads. There are several reasons why we have not been able to eliminate cancer entirely: \n1. Cancer cells are very good at evading our body's natural defenses. They are able to hide from the immune system and continue to grow and spread. \n2. Cancer cells are also very good at adapting and changing, which makes it difficult for treatments to effectively target and kill them. \n3. Different types of cancer can behave very differently, and what works for one type of cancer may not work for another. This means that researchers and doctors have to come up with different approaches and treatments for each type of cancer. \n4. Early detection and treatment of cancer is important, but it is not always possible to catch cancer in its early stages. Some types of cancer do not have obvious symptoms until they have already advanced, which can make them more difficult to treat. \n5. Finally, cancer research is a very complex and time-consuming process. It takes a lot of effort and resources to develop new treatments and to test them to make sure they are safe and effective. \nOverall, timing of treatment is just one factor that can affect the success of cancer treatment. There are many other factors that contribute to the effectiveness of treatment, including the type and stage of the cancer, the patient's overall health, and the specific treatment being used.<>reddit_eli5