Why do orchestral musicians ( violinists , for example ) have to read their music on stage , as opposed to rock musicians who have their parts memorized ? Do n't say it 's more complicated ... think of Rush , etc . Explain like I'm five.<>Two reasons come to mind . First , yes , the music * is * more complicated . Symphonic music is tightly scored , precisely notated stuff which is deeply dependent on exact precision and unity across the ensemble . Play a note marcato when it 's marked staccato and the world - famous guest conductor with the diva complex might well decapitate you — and there 's thousands of notes with all sorts of annotation . Rush does n't compare . Second , if you 're in a professional orchestra , you 're generally giving at least one new concert series a week , which means learning at least an hour of this stuff in time to work with whoever is conducting that concert that week , then getting it up to performance standard in just a few rehearsals . This is n't Rush — it 's being in a cover band that does Rush better than Rush this weekend , Queen better than Queen next weekend , Bon Jovi better than Bon Jovi the weekend after that , and on and on for an eight - month season , all while trying to juggle your private students , solo recording contracts , and whatever else you do to try to keep your family fed . Memorizing the second violin part to every Beethoven piano concerto takes time you just do n't have .<>Orchestral musicians often have to read their music on stage because the pieces they play are often very complex and have many different parts that are played by different instruments. This means that it is difficult for a musician to memorize all of the different parts and play them correctly without being able to refer to the written music. Rock musicians, on the other hand, often play simpler music that is easier to memorize and they may only have to play one or a few different parts. Additionally, rock bands often perform the same songs over and over again, so the musicians have plenty of time to practice and memorize their parts before performing.<>reddit_eli5