Why ca n't computer programs accurately predict how long a task will take ? Installation , defragmenting , the \" microsoft minute \" ... It really seems to be of a crap shoot when timing tasks and I 'm sure there 's a good reason for it . Explain like I'm five.<>One reason ( there are several ) is that the status bar gets broken down to subtasks . If there 's a team writing a program , the guy in charge might say \" Alright Bob , you get the first half of the bar , Sue , you get the second half \" because he does n't know ahead of time who will take longer . Bob might be last and just register when he 's done - causing half the bar to fill up at once . Sue might be more careful , logging each thing she does , so the bar seems to fill up continuously . Another problem is that programs often depend on other programs , and they do n't know how long the subprograms take . So if the bar presents doing 9 units of work and then letting another program take over , the first 90 % might be accurate but the last 10 % can be a crapshoot . Another is that not all work is equal . Say the program is supposed to analyze some files somehow . It might know there are 20 files to analyze - what it might not check is that 19 of the files are 2 KB and the last one is 3 GB . So the large files is going to take forever and make the bar not last a good amount of time .<>Predicting how long a task will take can be difficult for a computer program because there are many factors that can affect the speed at which a task is completed. For example, the speed of the computer's processor, the amount of available memory, and the complexity of the task can all impact the amount of time it takes to complete a task. Additionally, other programs or processes running on the computer at the same time can also affect the speed at which a task is completed. Finally, the quality of the code in the program can also affect how quickly a task is completed. All of these factors can make it challenging for a computer program to accurately predict how long a task will take.<>reddit_eli5