The circle of fifths : what is it , how does it work , and why is it important ? Thanks guys for all the great answers , I really appreciate it . Every single one has been greatly helpful ! Please explain like I'm five.<>Firstly , a \" fifth \" is the fifth note in a major scale . Play a note on a piano , then play seven notes higher ; that 's a fifth . Play that note 's fifth . Then that note 's fifth . Keep going and you eventually reach the note you started with ( albeit at a higher octave ) , hence why it 's called a circle . It 's important because it illustrates how related ( or not related as the case may be ) any key is to any given starting key . That helps a musician find a suitable key to change to , if they want to change keys . A more related key sounds smoother . Less related will create a less pleasant sounding transition . Picture it as a circle , or better yet , a 12 sided shape of equal proportions ( a dodecagon ) , each side representing a key a fifth away from its neighbouring side . You can now * visualise * which keys sound good and which sound bad in relation to any starting key , like a chart . The more related two keys are , the closer they will be on the dodecagon . Opposing sides represent the least relation . Edit : tried to clarify the last paragraph<>The circle of fifths is a way of organizing the 12 notes of music. It is shaped like a circle and is divided into 12 parts, each representing a different musical key. To understand how it works, let's start by talking about musical keys. A key is a group of notes that sound good together. For example, the key of C has the notes C, D, E, F, G, A, and B. These notes all fit together and sound good when played in a song. The circle of fifths shows how keys are related to each other. It starts with the key of C, and then shows what happens when you go up or down by a \"fifth.\" A fifth is an interval between two notes that are seven steps apart on the musical scale. For example, if you go up a fifth from C, you get to G. If you go down a fifth from C, you get to F. The circle of fifths shows that the keys are related to each other by fifths. If you go clockwise around the circle, the keys get higher in pitch (they sound higher). If you go counterclockwise, the keys get lower in pitch (they sound lower). The circle of fifths is important because it helps musicians understand how different keys are related to each other. It is especially useful for musicians who are improvising or composing music, because it helps them understand which notes will sound good together in a particular key.<>reddit_eli5