Why do people like alcohol ? I am going to college next year and I know that there will be parties all that , but I just do n't get . Especially something like shots etc . Please explain like I'm five.<>There are many different reasons to enjoy alcohol . In moderate doses , it makes you feel more relaxed , it may have some health benefits , it enhances the taste of food ( the right wine pairing is an excellent complement to a good meal ) , it can taste good on itself , etc . Beer is extremely refreshing in a hot day , and can be warming in a cold day , depending on the type of beer . To young people , it is attractive because it can make you feel happier , more confident , and take more risks . This is particularly attractive if you are just learning how to behave socially , need to make friends in a strange place , would like to start dating , need to relieve stress - all common situations in college , especially for freshmen . But I think that there is a distortion , in particular in the US . Alcohol in college becomes more important than it should be because for most of the kids , it has been such a taboo most of their lives . College is the first time that you may find yourself without close supervision and surrounded by people your age who have access to alcohol . Then you turn 21 and suddenly you can legally have the stuff . As a result , most Americans are completely unprepared for this , when the time comes . They do n't know what they like , they do n't know what their limits are , they do n't know how their bodies will react , and they have to deal with peer pressure telling them that drinking is required and that being wasted is desirable fro some reason . Finally , there is a small percentage of the population who are vulnerable to alcohol addiction , which is something that you really do n't want in your life . It 's like most other addictions , except that it is very visible , very public , and very hard to escape . For all these reasons , my suggestion is simply , be careful . Do n't let yourself get carried away . Put a very small limit on yourself . Go to a party , for instance , with the firm limit of 1 beer . No matter how you feel then , do n't push that limit . After you go home and it wears off , think about it and see if it would be wise to raise your limit next time . No matter who you are , though , more then 4 or 5 beers in one event are a bad sign . Stay away from hard liquors as much as you can . If \/ when you are ready to try , make sure you do it with a group of friends , and that at least one of you is going to be sober . You will eventually get a hangover , inevitably . Remember that if you feel bad , it 's for a reason - you probably pushed your body more than it was able to go . Finally , remember that in large quantities alcohol can kill . Every year there are reports of kids killing themselves in colleges , by drinking too much and not knowing how to deal with it . As a parent , this is one of my biggest fears . So know that it is not normal for someone to drink so much that they pass out . If this happens to someone around you , be a true friend and try to stop them . If you ca n't and they do pass out , try to wake them up . Take them home , give them a shower , have them drink some coffee . They can sleep after they feel better . Most important , if someone has been drinking a lot , passes out , and you ca n't wake them up , please , please call 911 or take them to a hospital . Yes , there will be consequences , but any consequence is better than your friend dying because no one was responsible enough , brave enough to get them help when they need it . be safe .<>People like alcohol for a variety of reasons. Some people enjoy the taste of certain types of alcohol, while others like the way it makes them feel. Some people drink alcohol to relax or to socialize with friends. For some people, drinking alcohol is a way to celebrate special occasions or to mark the end of a long day. \nHowever, it's important to remember that drinking alcohol can also have negative consequences. Alcohol can impair your judgment and coordination, and it can also be addictive. It's important to drink responsibly and to be aware of the risks associated with alcohol consumption. If you decide to drink alcohol, it's a good idea to have a designated driver or another form of transportation to get home safely.<>reddit_eli5