How we can tell how far things are in space ? Like stars and galaxies Explain like I'm five.<>There are several ways . One works really well for closer things . It 's called [ parallax ] ( URL_0 ) . If we see a star in the sky in March and note where it is compared to background stars and then measure how far it has moved against the background stars when we look again in September , when the Earth is on the other side of the Sun , we can use trigonometry to calculate how far away it is . For things that are much farther away , like galaxies , parallax does n't work anymore . The diameter of the Earths orbit around the Sun is too small compared to the distance to those objects for us to measure any difference . So one of the ways we use for galaxies is called a [ standard candle . ] ( URL_1 ) If we know how bright a star is intrinsically we can tell how far away it is by how bright it appears to us here on earth . Because its brightness decreases by a known amount related to how far away it is called the inverse - square law . There are other ways we can measure galactic distances as well , but the two I described will at least give you an idea of how it can be done .<>There are a few different ways that scientists can tell how far away things are in space, like stars and galaxies. One way is by using something called the \"distance ladder.\" This is a method that involves using different techniques to measure distances to objects at different scales, from the size of our own Solar System all the way up to the distance to the most distant galaxies. One technique that is used in the distance ladder is called parallax. This is when an object appears to move against the background as we view it from different positions. By measuring how much an object appears to move, we can calculate how far away it is. Another technique that is used is called spectroscopy. When light from a star or galaxy passes through a telescope, it is spread out into different colors, like a rainbow. By looking at the colors of the light, scientists can learn about the temperature, composition, and motion of the object. They can also use this information to calculate the distance to the object. There are many other techniques that scientists use to measure distances in space, including using the brightness of objects, the expansion of the universe, and the properties of supernovae (exploding stars). These techniques all help us to learn more about the universe and how far away different objects are from us.<>reddit_eli5