The whole Cliven Bundy Ranch situation in Nevada . I 'm sorry . I 've tried numerous websites and blogs . Since there is no such thing as honest media , I find several different ( and confusing ) explanations of what 's going on there . Explain like I'm five.<>OK , so , the Bureau of Land Management is a government agency that owns a lot of land out in the west . In Nevada especially , where the BLM literally owns most of the land in the state . Ranchers use BLM land to graze cattle . It 's a good deal : the ranchers do n't have to purchase lots of land , and the government gets grazing fees from the ranchers . There 's a rancher out in Nevada who grazed on BLM land . There was some dispute 20 years ago , regarding the habitat of an endangered tortoise that lived where he was grazing . Back about 15 years ago , the BLM revoked his grazing permit . But , he continues to graze his cattle on BLM land without a permit . Eventually , the government got fed up with it , went to court , and got an order to impound the cattle that had been illegally grazing on federal property . The rancher has made claims that this is really his land , his birthright , from before the BLM owned the land ( so , before the 1870s ) . He does n't seem to have any legal claim that a court will recognize . He has a lot of support , mostly from other ranchers who do n't like the idea that a tortoise habitat can take precedence over their livelihoods . So , there 's protests and the like , but the basic issue is this : he 's already had his day in court , he 's already lost , and he does n't like the result .<>The Cliven Bundy Ranch situation was a conflict between a rancher named Cliven Bundy and the US government over the use of public land. The government said that Mr. Bundy owed them money because he had been allowing his cows to graze on public land without paying a fee, which is against the law. Mr. Bundy refused to pay the fee and said that the government did not have the right to charge him for using the land. This led to a disagreement and eventually a standoff between Mr. Bundy and the government, with some people supporting Mr. Bundy and others supporting the government. Eventually, the situation was resolved, but I don't have any more information about what happened after that.<>reddit_eli5
