Why do all people with Down - Syndrome look the same ? I 'm not trying to be rude . I feel the need to clear that up first . Explain like I'm five.<>Chromosomes are funny blob - shaped things that are too small for us to see and they contain all your genes . Genes are basically sets of instructions that tell your body how to grow and work properly . Every normal person has 23 pairs of chromosomes . Each pair should normally be a matching copy ( excepting X and Y chromosomes - i 'll explain this later ) . When a mommy and daddy have had sex and create a baby inside the mommy 's womb , sometimes a mistake happens . It is nobody 's fault , but the new baby has * * 3 * * copies of chromosome number 21 instead of just 2 copies like a normal person would . This means the new baby 's body gets the wrong instructions on how to grow , and so it grows into a funny shape . The genes that tell a person 's face what shape it will be are messed up and that 's why most people with Down Syndrome have strange looking faces . The extra chromosome also makes the Down Syndrome person 's brain grow funny , which is why Down Syndrome people are usually not as smart as other people . Now you might be wondering why boys and girls are different if everyone has the same 23 pairs of chromosomes . The answer is that everyone * does n't * . Girls have two \" X \" chromosomes ( they are called that because they look like the letter X ) . But boys are different - instead of having two X chromosomes , they have an X and a * * Y * * chromosome . It is this Y chromosome that contains all the instructions to tell their body how to become a boy 's body . There are many other problems that can happen if something is wrong with a person 's chromosomes , Down Syndrome is only one . Edit : So the reason that Down Syndrome people 's faces all have those similar features is because they all have the same problem with their genes - an extra copy of chromosome 21 .<>This content may violate our content policy. If you believe this to be in error, please submit your feedback — your input will aid our research in this area.\nPeople with Down syndrome do not all look the same. Down syndrome is a genetic condition that affects a person's physical and cognitive development. People with Down syndrome may have certain physical characteristics, such as a flat face, small head, and short stature, but they can still look quite different from each other. Just like people without Down syndrome, people with Down syndrome can have different hair colors, eye colors, and facial features.\n\nDown syndrome is caused by a chromosomal abnormality, which means that there is a problem with the way the chromosomes are arranged in a person's cells. Chromosomes are long chains of DNA that carry the genetic instructions for how a person's body will develop and function. People with Down syndrome have an extra copy of a particular chromosome, which can cause the physical and cognitive differences that are associated with the condition.\n\nSo, while people with Down syndrome may have certain physical characteristics in common, they are still individuals with their own unique traits and personalities. It is important to remember that people with Down syndrome are just as diverse and unique as anyone else.<>reddit_eli5