ELIM5 : Why does Einstein have theories and Newton has laws What makes the laws of motion laws and the theory of general relativity a theory is it a name or is there something deeper . Also could the theory of general relativity ever become a law . Explain like I'm five.<>At least in terms of Newton 's Second Law ( force is equal to mass times acceleration ) , it is a law because it is a definition of a term . A Newton , the standard unit of force , is the amount of force required to make an object with one kilogram of mass increase its speed by one meter per second , per second . If you want to do two of those , you then have to apply two Newtons . Given the fact that these are our definitions , the equation F = MA must be true . As such , it is a law . In the case of Einstein , Einstein saw something happen and tried to explain why it happened . He was n't defining any terms , he was proposing an idea for why something happened . Since it 's not a matter of definition , there 's a chance that there is something we do n't know , which makes it inaccurate . However , we have not disproven it . Therefore , it is a theory , rather than a law .<>Einstein and Newton are both scientists who made important discoveries about how the world works. Einstein's theory of general relativity and Newton's laws of motion are both ways to explain the way things move and behave.\n\nA \"law\" is a statement that describes something that always happens in the same way. For example, Newton's laws of motion are statements that describe how objects will move if certain things are happening to them, like if they are being pushed or pulled. These laws are very reliable and have been tested many times, so we have a lot of confidence in them.\n\nA \"theory\" is a little bit different. It's a way of explaining things that is based on a lot of evidence, but it's not yet proven to be completely true. The theory of general relativity is Einstein's idea about how gravity works. It's a very good explanation for a lot of things, but it's possible that there might be some things it doesn't explain perfectly. Scientists are still working on understanding and testing the theory of general relativity to see if it's completely accurate.\n\nSo, to answer your question, the difference between a law and a theory is that a law is a statement that describes something that always happens in the same way, while a theory is an explanation for something that is based on evidence but is not yet proven to be completely true. It's possible that the theory of general relativity could someday become a law if we gather enough evidence to show that it's always true.<>reddit_eli5