What exactly is an Arduino and how does it work ? Also , why is it used in what seems to be 90 % of home - made electronics projects ? Explain like I'm five.<>Okay ... like you 're five .. An Arduino is a small device called a micro - controller that is like a very small computer that allows programs to talk to and control other devices that do things like move stuff or measure things . Examples of things it could control : Motors , Levers , Lights , Speakers . It can talk to other things too , like : sensors such as thermometers , light meters , cameras and so on . The programs that do the thinking for the Arduino are created on a personal computer , and then generally stored on memory attached to the Arduino . If you want to make a program physically move something or interact with something , chances are you want to use a micro - controller like the Arduino . You could use an Arduino to make a small robot like a car . Or you could use it to make a spy sensor for your bedroom door . Or if you really wanted to get crazy you could make a robotic nerf gun turret to shoot your sister when she gets into your stuff . EDIT : tchebb is correct , Arduinos have onboard memory , and do n't use memory cards .<>An Arduino is a small computer that you can program to control things like lights, motors, and sensors. It has a small processor (a brain) and a bunch of input and output pins (like little hands and feet) that you can use to control and talk to other electronic parts. Arduinos are used in a lot of home-made electronics projects because they are easy to use and program, and they are also very inexpensive. They are also very versatile, which means that you can use them to control many different kinds of things, from simple LED lights to complex robots. To use an Arduino, you will need to install special software on your computer and connect the Arduino to your computer using a special cable. Then, you can write a program (a set of instructions) in the software and upload it to the Arduino. The Arduino will then follow the instructions in your program and do things like turn on lights or move motors. So, in short, an Arduino is a small computer that you can use to control electronic projects by writing and uploading programs to it.<>reddit_eli5