Why do humans have such long lifespans compared to other animals ? It seems most animals lives are measured in single digits which is kinda weird how come we can live to be 80 - 90 easily when most other animals die naturally a long time before that ? Explain like I'm five.<>In nature , there 's two general \" strategies \" for a species to survive . Strategy # 1 is to have lots and lots and lots and lots of babies . Because the parent ca n't take care of so many babies , the babies are pretty much left to fend for themselves . Most of them die young , but a few survive into adulthood . This is called R - selection . Strategy # 2 is to have a few babies , but to nurture and take care of them , so that they have a high probability of surviving into adulthood . This strategy , known as K - selection , is used by all large animals , including humans . The K - selected strategy works best if , once the animal reaches sexual maturity , it has a long life . That way , it can have lots of babies , even if each of one takes a long time to raise . That 's why large species tend to live longer than smaller ones - because evolution selected those species for longevity . For more information : URL_0 * * Ninja edit * * : Yes , there are exceptions to this rule , like tortoises , which tend to exhibit both r - selected traits ( lots of babies ) and K - selected traits ( long life ) .<>Human beings have longer lifespans compared to other animals because our bodies are able to survive and function for a longer period of time. There are many factors that contribute to this, including our advanced immune systems, which help us to fight off diseases, and the fact that we have developed ways to protect ourselves from dangers such as predators. We also have access to medical care, which can help us to recover from injuries and illnesses. Finally, our bodies are able to repair and regenerate themselves over time, which helps us to stay healthy and live longer. So, all of these things combined allow us to live longer than most other animals.<>reddit_eli5