Why do they circumcise women in Egypt , and why do the women agree to it ? I am having a hard time understanding this Explain like I'm five.<>Burkina Faso here , and most of the girls in my village have been circumcised . It is done to keep girls from being interested in sex when they come of age . It is also thought that this practice will make women more fertile and that those who are circumcised will have more children . It is technically illegal here , but it is very hard to enforce in local villages . And younger girls are starting to be informed that they can go to the police if anyone tries to circumcise them , but this is leading adults to start circumcising infants . I am optimistic , every girl I have talked to said that they will not circumcise their children , it will hopefully die out with the older generation passing . -**Edit**- A lot of interesting discussion going on here , and a few people asking for an AMA . Tomorrow is our market day so the villagers I know will probably be busy , but keep your eyes peeled for an AMA , I 'm sure the people I know would like to hear what Americans ( and the rest of the world ) would have to ask about our village .<>Female circumcision, also known as female genital mutilation (FGM), is a harmful traditional practice that involves the partial or total removal of the external female genitalia. It is often carried out on girls between infancy and the age of 15, and is done for a variety of reasons, including cultural, religious, and social beliefs. In Egypt, female circumcision is a longstanding tradition that is often considered a rite of passage. Some people believe that it is necessary for a girl's cleanliness, modesty, and future marriage prospects. Others may see it as a way to reduce a woman's libido and prevent premarital sex. However, there is no scientific or medical justification for female circumcision, and it has been condemned by the World Health Organization (WHO) and other international organizations as a human rights violation. The vast majority of women in Egypt who have undergone female circumcision have had it done to them against their will. They may have been subjected to the practice because of pressure from their families or community, or because they were not given a choice in the matter. Many women may not fully understand the implications of the procedure, or may be unaware of the risks and complications that can result. Female circumcision is a painful and traumatic experience that can have serious physical and psychological consequences for the women who undergo it. It can cause severe bleeding, infection, scarring, and even death. It can also lead to difficulties with urination, sexual dysfunction, and childbirth. There is no medical benefit to female circumcision, and it should not be performed.<>reddit_eli5