What is the Israeli – Palestinian conflict ? Why is there a huge fight of Isreal vs Palestine ? All I know is that Isreal took over land that was not theirs ? Explain like I'm five.<>Repost of mine : I 'm bored so here is an in - depth answer . So the story starts 3000 years ago . There are a bunch of peoples living in the Levant at the time . One of them are the Israelites , and eventually they conquer much of the region . The Israelites have two kingdoms : Israel and Judah . Israel is eventually destroyed by the Assyrians , and its people assimilated ( hence , the \" lost tribes \" ) . Judah is conquered by a few peoples , yet preserved . It passes through the Babylonians , Persians , Macedonians , and finally the Romans . The Romans call the area \" Judea , \" as a Latinized version of Judah . So the Jews in Judea were n't too happy with the Romans . They revolted a few times , each time resulting in Jews being taken away into slavery or fleeing . Finally , there was such a big insurrection that the Romans said \" screw it \" and threw out all of the Jews . Many were taken into Italy as slaves , others fled to places like the Arabian Peninsula , and even India and China . Some Jews were able to remain in Judea , but the Roman emperor decided he would rename the area \" Palestine , \" after a former enemy of the Israelites , the \" Philistines . \" He wanted to slap the Jews in the face , so to speak , so he named the area after a people that pretty much did n't exist anymore . Eventually the Jews brought into Rome spread across Europe , ending up in Spain , and Germany . By the time the Roman Empire fell , the Jews were all over the place , and they continued to move throughout the next 1500 years . So meanwhile , the Roman Empire split into two and the Eastern portion eventually became known as the Byzantine Empire . The Byzantines were pretty powerful at first but they dwindled . In the 7th Century , Mohammed founded the religion of Islam and led his followers from the Arabian Peninsula to conquer much of the Middle East . In the next hundred years , the Arabs conquered a huge empire , stretching from modern - day Iraq to North Africa . This included Palestine , which they conquered from the Byzantines . So the Pope was pretty pissed that Muslims conquered the Holy Land , and thus the Crusades . All you need to know about those is it was Christians vs Muslims . Just as there were many Christian nations involved , there were many Muslim nations . The once great unified empire of Mohammed and his immediate followers had begun to split . The Jews are big losers here , being killed because they were n't really on either side . Many Jews took shelter within Muslim empires , as they were treated much better than they were by Christians . Christians traditionally hated Jews , in part because they blamed them for the death of Jesus . Jews were alienated and often persecuted . That hate only increased after the Black Death , when Jews were blamed for causing it . So the Turks were several peoples from Central Asia who converted to Islam . A certain Turkish group , the Ottomans , were able to conquer Palestine . They moved in to the area , and brought families in with them . The Turks were also trade masters , and encouraged trade through North Africa and across the world . They welcomed Bedouins from North Africa and Arabs to live in their land as well . Most of the Palestinians today are descended from the Ottomans , Bedouins , Arabs , and Turks who preceded them in this era . So what is now Spain was largely split between Muslims and Christians by the middle of the 15th century . The Muslims were friendly to the Jews and the Christians were not . Well , the Christians decided to kick everyone out , so they fought out the Muslims , and then killed \/ expelled \/ forced Jews to convert . Many Jews fled again , going to North Africa , Turkey , England , and more . Over time , Muslim nations began to lose power . By World War One , the Ottoman empire was on its last leg . A revolution in Turkey led to the final collapse of this empire , and the downfall of the last traditional Muslim empire . Many extremist Muslims want to restore a Muslim empire ( see , al Qaeda ) . After the war , Great Britain had possession of Palestine . Meanwhile , Jews faced terrible conditions in Europe for centuries . They were very often persecuted in basically every country they lived in . Many strove to return to Israel , as a sort of safe haven , and many did go and move there . Great Britain declared that they would allow Jews to move into Palestine at some point . So the Holocaust leads to 6 million dead Jews . It became clear that Jews needed a homeland where they could be protected . Britain wants Jews to live in somewhere not well populated , so they do n't fuck things up . Jews insist on Palestine . This is where the Turks and Jews living in Palestine start to \" hate each other . \" The people living in Palestine call themselves Palestinians , to differentiate themselves from Jews . Both sides start bombing British buildings , and terror breaks out . The British back away and leave the issue with the United Nations . The UN decides that Palestine will be split into two , with Jerusalem as an international city . Jews are happy , but Palestinians are pissed . So hundreds of thousands of Jews escape persecution and go into Palestine . The bordering Muslim countries support the Palestinians , so they quickly invade Israel . During the war , Palestinian radio exaggerates the Israeli power and scares many Palestinians into leaving their homes . Some Palestinians are forced out by Israelis , but most of them leave their homes because they are told they will be able to get their homes when they come back . Israel wins the war , and conquers what would have been Palestinian land according to the UN deal . Jews basically move into the Palestinian homes and make it their own . Boom , now the Palestinians are misplaced . Israel leaves some land for Palestinians , but it 's shitty land . Israel then starts to develop rapidly , turning unlivable land into arable land . Meanwhile , impoverished Palestinians ca n't do much about their land . A few more wars are fought ( largely preemptive wars by the Israelis ) leading to Israel conquering more Palestinian land . Extremists in the Palestinian regions of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip are often looked up to as heroes . The Palestinian government was led by Yaser Arafat . He was corrupt , and would often steal aid money meant for Palestinians . He would also store arms in schools and mosques so the only way Israel could get them was by attacking these places . So you have Palestinians- displaced , impoverished , and even suppressed and misinformed by their own government . Then you have the Israelis , who occasionally would give aid to the Palestinians , but would also enter their regions if violence against Israel spikes . Arafat made a couple deals with the Israelis that he said would lead to peace but he constantly backed out of the deals . In the early 2000s , there was an onset of violence by Palestinians- suicide bombs in Israeli cities . As a result the Israelis entered the West Bank and built walls to keep Palestinians out of the country . Arafat died and was replaced with a more moderate Abbas in the West Bank . However , Gaza is controlled by a terrorist group , Hamas . The Palestinians want what they say is their land back , and really just want to not be so poor . After Hamas officially took control of Gaza , Israel elected a pretty right - wing government that has been building Israeli settlements in what should be Palestinian land . Tensions are getting worse , and neither side will listen to the other . But really , you have two legitimate sides with two displaced people . Palestinians have been living there for centuries , but the Jews were forced out of their beforehand and have n't had a home since . The Palestinians say that their land is what the Israelis have , and wo n't accept what they have now . This is difficult because the Israelis have really transformed the land and it is n't how the Palestinians left it anymore . A pattern with Arafat was saying that the Palestinians wanted a little more land , etc , and there was even one case of Israel forcing its own citizens out of Palestinian territory by force a few years ago . However , Arafat would then back out and demand more land , and continue to fund violence behind a facade of peace . He even had a Nobel Peace Prize revoked . Israelis are weary to make another deal with Abbas because of what Arafat did . Another big thing going on here are the rockets . Palestinian terrorists have supplies gangs of young Palestinians with rockets that they send into Israel every so often . It usually does n't hurt anyone , but it does do damage occasionally . In response , Israel sends bombs etc to suspected terrorists and makes a lot of arrests . Some of these arrests are pretty shady . Some civilian Palestinians die in Israeli raids responding to rockets , but most die because of the terrorist method of hiding weapons in civilian locations .<>The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a long-standing disagreement between Israelis and Palestinians over land and self-determination. At its core, the conflict is about two groups of people who both want to live in the same place and have their own independent countries.\n\nThe conflict has a long history, and there are many complex issues at play. However, one of the main reasons for the conflict is that Israel has taken control of land in the region that was previously occupied by Palestinian people. This has led to a lot of tension and disagreement between the two groups, as Palestinians feel that their land has been taken from them and that they have not been treated fairly by the Israeli government.\n\nThere have been many attempts to try to resolve the conflict and find a peaceful solution, but so far, no lasting peace has been achieved. The situation remains tense, and there are often clashes and violence between Israelis and Palestinians.<>The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a long-standing disagreement between Israelis and Palestinians over land and self-determination. At its core, the conflict is about two groups of people who both want to live in the same place and have their own independent countries.\n\nThe conflict has a long history, and there are many complex issues at play. However, one of the main reasons for the conflict is that Israel has taken control of land in the region that was previously occupied by Palestinian people. This has led to a lot of tension and disagreement between the two groups, as Palestinians feel that their land has been taken from them and that they have not been treated fairly by the Israeli government.\n\nThere have been many attempts to try to resolve the conflict and find a peaceful solution, but so far, no lasting peace has been achieved. The situation remains tense, and there are often clashes and violence between Israelis and Palestinians.<>reddit_eli5