Bank denying loan after “subject-to” appraisal: What to do?<>The first red-flag here is that an appraisal was not performed on an as-is basis - and if it could not be done, you should be told why. Getting an appraisal on an after-improvement basis only makes sense if you are proposing to perform such improvements and want that factored in as a basis of the loan. It seems very bizarre to me that a mortgage lender would do this without any explanation at all. The only way this makes sense is if the lender is only offering you a loan with specific underwriting guidelines on house quality (common with for instance VA-loans and how they require the roof be of a certain maximum age - among dozens of other requirements, and many loan products have their own standards). This should have been disclosed to you during the process, but one can certainly never assume anyone will do their job properly - or it may have only mentioned in some small print as part of pounds of paper products you may have been offered or made to sign already. The bank criteria is \"reasonable\" to the extent that generally mortgage companies are allowed to set underwriting criteria about the current condition of the house. It doesn't need to be reasonable to you personally, or any of us - it's to protect lender profits by aiding their risk models. Your plans and preferences don't even factor in to their guidelines. Not all criteria are on a a sliding scale, so it doesn't necessarily matter how well you meet their other standards. You are of course correct that paying for thousands of dollars in improvements on a house you don't own is lunacy, and the fact that this was suggested may on it's own suggest you should cut your losses now and seek out a different lender.  Given the lender being uncooperative, the only reason to stick with it seems to be the sunk cost of the appraisal you've already paid for. I'd suggest you specifically ask them why they did not perform an as-is appraisal, and listen to the answer (if you can get one). You can try to contact the appraiser directly as well with this question, and ask if you can have the appraisal strictly as-is without having a new appraisal. They might be helpful, they might not. As for taking the appraisal with you to a new bank, you might be able to do this - or you might not. It is strictly up to each lender to set criteria for appraisals they accept, but I've certainly known of people re-using an appraisal done sufficiently recently in this way. It's a possibility that you will need to write off the $800 as an \"education expense\", but it's certainly worth trying to see if you can salvage it and take it with you - you'll just have to ask each potential lender, as I've heard it go both ways. It's not a crazy or super-rare request - lenders backing out based on appraisal results should be absolutely normal to anyone in the finance business. To do this, you can just state plainly the situation. You paid for an appraisal and the previous lender fell through, and so you would like to know if they would be able to accept that and provide you with a loan without having to buy a whole new appraisal. This would also be a good time to talk about condition requirements, in that you want a loan on an as-is basic for a house that is inhabitable but needs cosmetic repair, and you plan to do this in cash on your own time after the purchase closes. Some lenders will be happy to do this at below 75%-80% LTV, and some absolutely do not want to make this type of loan because the house isn't in perfect condition and that's just what their lending criteria is right now.  Based on description alone, I don't think you really should need to go into alternate plans like buy cash and then get a home equity loan to get cash out, special rehab packages, etc. So I'd encourage you to try a more straight-forward option of a different lender, as well as trying to get a straight answer on their odd choice of appraisal order that you paid for, before trying anything more exotic or totally changing your purchase\/finance plans.<>If a bank denies a loan after a \"subject-to\" appraisal, it means that the bank has evaluated the property and has determined that it is not worth the value that the borrower is proposing to pay for it. This can happen for a variety of reasons, including market conditions, the condition of the property, or the borrower's creditworthiness.If you are in this situation, here are some steps you can take:Review the appraisal report: You should review the appraisal report to understand the reasons why the bank has denied the loan. This will help you identify any issues that you may need to address in order to obtain financing.Negotiate with the seller: If the property is worth less than what you agreed to pay, you may need to negotiate with the seller to reduce the price. If the seller is unwilling to lower the price, you may need to consider other options, such as finding another property or renegotiating the terms of the loan.Consider alternative financing options: If the bank has denied your loan, you may need to consider alternative financing options, such as a private lender or a mortgage broker. These options may have different requirements and terms, so it's important to carefully review them before making a decision.Improve your credit: If your creditworthiness was a factor in the bank's decision to deny your loan, you may need to work on improving your credit score. This can involve paying off outstanding debts, improving your credit utilization ratio, or correcting any errors on your credit report.Consult with a real estate lawyer: If you feel that the bank's decision was not fair or that you have been treated unfairly, you may want to consult with a real estate lawyer. A lawyer can review your case and advise you on your options.<>finance