Why can large loans ( e.g. mortgages ) be structured so that your first several payments are mostly interest and little principal ? Is there a better reason than , \" Because they can \" ? It seems so unfair to the borrower . Explain like I'm five.<>Loans do not have to be structured that way ; that 's just the result of homeowner 's desire to have a stable payment for the life of the loan . If your payment is fixed , some of it must be allocated to interest and some to principle . Early in the loan the principle is large , so the interest is large , and the interest has to be paid every year ( this is what you 're paying the bank to have the loan ) . As a result , once you pay the interest , there is n't much left over for paying principle . Over time , as the principle shrinks , the interest gets smaller but your payment is the same size , so more goes to principle . If you do n't have fixed size payments , you can do whatever you like after you pay the interest . You can structure a loan so that you pay the same amount of principle on every payment , but then your total payment will be much larger early on when the interest is also large ( many home equity line - of - credit loans can be paid this way ) .<>Mortgages are structured this way because it allows the lender to collect more interest in the beginning of the loan, while the borrower is paying off the principal (the amount borrowed) gradually over time. This is known as a \"front-loaded\" interest structure.\r\n\r\nOne reason for this structure is that it can make the monthly payments more affordable for the borrower. If the borrower had to pay off a large portion of the principal right away, the monthly payments would be much higher and might be difficult to afford. By spreading out the payments over a longer period of time and including more interest in the early payments, the lender can make the monthly payments more manageable for the borrower.\r\n\r\nIt's also worth noting that the amount of interest you pay on a mortgage can vary depending on the terms of the loan and the interest rate. A loan with a higher interest rate will result in higher monthly payments, and more of those payments will be going towards interest in the beginning. You can shop around and compare different loans to find one that works best for your budget and financial situation.<>reddit_eli5