How do life insurance companies make a profit ? I 'm guessing they invest the money from payments or something but I 'm not sure . I 've got a feeling that it 's going to be an embarrassingly obvious answer . :\/ Explain like I'm five.
Insurance professional here . There are a few ways that , combined , explain how an insurance company makes money . 1 . Underwriting , which consists of choosing who to insure , what the policy will look like ( i.e. any endorsements or exclusions , ) and what premium to charge . Companies with better overall underwriting will have a lower percentage of losses relative to the premium they collect . This means their rates need to be competitive enough to attract customers but not so so aggressive that they do not support the anticipated losses . Insurance companies employ actuaries to assist in setting their rates , which are regulated by the states . 2 . Operational efficiency . Think of a manufacturer - they can increase profits either by increasing their prices or by using lower cost materials . Insurance companies use a number of strategies to make operations more efficient . There are a lot of strategies in this area . The current trend is implementing new software to handle various parts of the process . This is their version of using lower cost materials . 3 . Investments . There is often a span of time between when the policy is purchased and when a claim is made . During this period , insurance companies will invest some of the premium they collect . To clarify though , the statement about investing for a 60 % return is completely wrong . Insurance companies are highly regulated in a number of ways , including the types of investments they can make . The idea is that insurance companies offer financial stability in return for a premium , so if they invest recklessly , lose the money , and are unable to pay claims , then the stability is lost and this is bad for society in general . Overall , about 2\/3 ( 66.8 % ) of the investable assets of an average life insurance company are held in cash and bonds . Different kinds of insurers will choose different types of bonds based on their expectations of claims and , without going into too much detail on that , life insurance companies tend to purchase long term ( up to 30 year ) bonds . The three major bond types - treasuries , municipals , and corporate - currently pay an average of 3.44 % , 3.97 % , and 4.49 % , respectively . More info on insurance company investments available at : URL_0 Very plainly , insurance companies have about four percentage points to play with . If we consider that to be a given , then their paid claims and operating expenses can not exceed 96 % of the premiums they charged or they 'll be losing money . Because they can not influence the return on their largest area of investment , there is a serious emphasis put on underwriting and operational efficiency . As for whether or not non - compulsory insurance makes sense , that 's going to vary from person to person . I 'm unmarried with no kids - nobody relies on me for food or shelter . Because of this , the only life insurance I have is what 's provided to me through my employer . If we changed the scenario and I was married with kids and a mortgage , then I 'd likely purchase the life insurance to minimize their financial discomfort in the event I died .
Life insurance companies make a profit by selling life insurance policies to people and investing the money they receive from premiums. When a person buys a life insurance policy, they pay a regular payment called a premium. The insurance company uses the money from premiums to invest in things like stocks, bonds, and other financial products. If the investments the company makes do well, then the company makes a profit. When the person who bought the life insurance policy dies, their family can make a claim on the policy and the insurance company pays out a sum of money, called the death benefit, to the policy beneficiaries. The company makes a profit by keeping the premiums paid by the policyholder over the years, and paying out less in death benefits.
reddit_eli5
