Why are women generally more flexible than men ? EDIT : Interesting to find that everyone has a different answer :) Please explain like I'm five.<>The tendons that attach muscles to bone are weaker and stretch easier . The synthesis of collagen , which binds and forms the tendon , is slower in women , so the cross section is less dense and therefore allows more stretch . See this study : URL_4 Edit : Tendon elasticity is greater in females in tested areas , and likely throughout the rest of the body . There is also the matter of muscle elasticity , which probably also contributes to increased laxity . Here are more citations : \" Furthermore , no previous data exists for in vivo measurement of female patellar tendon structural and mechanical properties , despite the fact that i thas been shown that in the gastrocnemius tendon females differ significantly with respect to their viscoelastic properties compared to males in that they exhibit greater tendon elongation , greater strain , lower stiffness , and lower hysteresis.13 Similarly , indications are that female athletes generally exhibit greater knee laxity,14 and higherincidence of anterior cruciate ligament injuries than males ( for a review see ref.15 ) . Hormones , particularly estrogens , have been suggested by some studies to be cause for the disproportionate tendon \/ ligament \/ joint laxity in females ( for a review see ref . 16 ) . \" Gender - Specific In Vivo Measurement of the Structuraland Mechanical Properties of the Human Patellar Tendon URL_3 Gender differences in the viscoelastic properties of tendon structures . URL_0 Sports - Related Knee Injuries in Female Athletes : What Gives ? URL_2 The effects of the menstrual cycle on anterior knee laxity : a systematic review URL_1<>Women are generally more flexible than men because they have more flexible joints and tendons. This is because women generally have higher levels of the hormone estrogen, which helps to keep joints and tendons flexible. Estrogen is produced by the ovaries and plays a role in many different body functions, including the development of female secondary sexual characteristics, such as breast development and the regulation of the menstrual cycle. It also helps to maintain bone density and keep bones strong.In addition to having more flexible joints and tendons, women also tend to have more flexible muscles. This is because they have less muscle mass and a higher percentage of slow-twitch muscle fibers, which are more resistant to fatigue and are better suited for activities that require endurance and flexibility, such as yoga or ballet.It's important to note that flexibility can vary from person to person, regardless of gender. Some men may be more flexible than some women, and some women may be less flexible than some men. Factors such as age, genetics, and overall physical fitness can also affect flexibility.<>reddit_eli5