How does radiation cause bodily deformations ? Could someone explain how radiation exposure causes bizarre birth defects ? I was looking at the fantastic photo collection \/u \/ R_Spc posted on Chernobyl post - accident , and it raised the question . Thank you ! Please explain like I'm five.<>Imagine you have a recipe for a cake , but it has a bunch of typos in it . Some typos ( \" add 2 eggz \" ) a minor and you can figure out the right thing to do . Some will so big ( \" add 2 s^29 _ \" ) that you 'll have no idea , and give up on making that cake . But some ( \" add 20 eggs \" ) will look valid , and cause you to try to make a cake in the wrong way . That 's what radiation does to you sex cells , it introduced typos in the recipes they use to make offspring . Some are minor and can be corrected for , some are major , and result in no offspring ever forming . And some are right in the middle , and those are the ones that result in birth defects .<>Radiation is a form of energy that can be harmful to living organisms, including humans. When a person is exposed to high levels of radiation, it can damage their cells and DNA. This can lead to a variety of health problems, including cancer and birth defects. Birth defects are physical or functional abnormalities that are present at birth. They can be caused by a variety of factors, including genetics, infections, and environmental exposures, such as radiation. Exposure to high levels of radiation, such as those that occurred after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, can cause birth defects in a variety of ways. For example, radiation can damage the DNA in a developing fetus, leading to abnormal growth and development. It can also interfere with the normal functioning of cells and tissues, leading to malformations or abnormalities. Radiation exposure can also increase the risk of miscarriage, stillbirth, and other pregnancy complications. In general, the higher the dose of radiation a person is exposed to, the greater the risk of health problems, including birth defects. It's important to note that not all people who are exposed to radiation will develop birth defects. The severity of the defects can also vary widely. However, it's always best to try to avoid unnecessary exposure to radiation, as it can have serious and potentially long-lasting health consequences.<>reddit_eli5