Why do we have emotions Why did we ( and all animals really ) evolve to have emotions ? Did this serve as a survival mechanism somehow ? It seems like crying after losing a loved one or overreacting because of anger would be an evolutionary weakness . Explain like I'm five.<>Emotions are ways of getting your attention and demand a response . From an evolutionary standpoint , emotions are agents of change and reaction . You see something that disgusts you . This something may cause you to get sick , and the disgust means you stay away from it . Something scares you , you run away , perhaps saving your life . Something angers you , causing you to attack . Perhaps you just defended your family , yourself , or a friend . Emotions will also cause us to continue to do something . If you feel joy while reading , you 'll read more . This causes us to strive to keep doing what we enjoy . Lastly , as anything that comes to the human mind , we 're social creatures . Emotions help us build social bonds with one another . ( Also , to answer your question about why being sad at the death of a loved one would be detrimental . Think of the opposite . You just brought life into this world .... yet you hold no emotional attachment to this life . With no emotional attachment , you 're much less likely to defend it , care for , ect . )<>Emotions are a normal and natural part of being human, and they serve a number of important functions.\n\nOne reason we have emotions is because they help us to communicate with others. For example, if you see someone who looks sad, you might feel empathy and want to offer them support. On the other hand, if someone is angry, you might feel afraid and want to stay away from them.\n\nEmotions also help us to make decisions. When we feel afraid, we might decide to avoid a situation that could be dangerous. When we feel happy, we might be more likely to try new things and take risks.\n\nFinally, emotions help us to cope with and manage difficult situations. For example, if you lose a loved one, feeling sad can help you to process your grief and eventually move on.\n\nOverall, emotions are an important part of what makes us human, and they help us to navigate and make sense of the world around us.<>reddit_eli5