Hedge Funds What are hedge funds ? How do they operate ? Explain like I'm five.<>* * What is hedging ? * * Investors constantly need to weigh investment risks ( i.e. the chance you will lose your money ) against potential rewards ( i.e. the chance you will make more money ) . In broad terms , hedging could be considered any action that results in reducing your investment risk relative to your return . For example , if you own shares in a company which makes sunscreen , and learn that they are forecasting three months of rain , you sell some of those shares and buy into a company which makes raincoats . If the weather forecasts are true , you have reduced your losses . But , if the weather forecasts are false , you have reduced your potential return . The ultimate goal is to reach risk - free profit ( where you make money no matter what happens with your investments ) , however in a free market , this always remains a goal rather than a reality . * * So , what 's a hedge fund ? * * A hedge fund is an institution who specialises in taking large volumes of money from people or other institutions , and aggressively investing with the intention to maximise returns . Hedge funds differ from mutual funds largely due to the type of investor , the exotic deals and positions they take , which are often highly leveraged , and the amount of regulation they are subject to .<>Hedge funds are investment funds that use a variety of strategies to make money. They try to make a profit no matter what the stock market is doing, so they are sometimes called \"hedge funds\" because they can help to \"hedge,\" or protect, against losses in other investments. Hedge funds are usually only available to very wealthy people or big institutions, like pension funds or university endowments. They often have high fees and are not as regulated as other types of investment funds. Hedge funds can use a wide range of strategies to make money, such as buying and selling stocks, bonds, and other securities, or using financial derivatives, which are complex financial instruments that can be used to make bets on the direction of the markets. Hedge funds are typically managed by professional investment managers who use their expertise and knowledge of the markets to make investment decisions on behalf of the fund. They are paid a percentage of the fund's profits, in addition to a management fee. Overall, hedge funds are a type of investment that can be risky but also have the potential to earn high returns.<>reddit_eli5