Grapes grow all over so why is wine only made in very specific regions ? Grapes grow wild here in northern Illinois but there are only a few small wineries . What about places like Burgundy or Napa Valley make them so much better for wine ? Explain like I'm five. <>One of the main things is sunlight . Sunlight powers photosynthesis to generate the sugars in the grapes that will eventually turn to alcohol . For example , in Napa Valley , the large amount of sunlight during the fruiting period results in an excess of sugar compared to other wine regions . This is why Napa Valley wines often have a greater alcohol content than other regions . Too little sunlight and the vines can not grow . Furthermore , if the winters are too cold , the vines will not survive to the next year due to freezing or rotting from excess moisture . Too much sunlight and there is the opposite problem as the plants dry out . While you can pipe in water from elsewhere in the US , most parts of Europe do not allow irrigation . Thus , the wine grapes only grow well in Europe in areas that have a balance between enough rain and sunlight . There 's other factors as well including soil quality to ensure that the grape vine roots can properly absorb the water . Grapes are quite hardy by themselves but to make sure you can make good wine from the grapes requires control over all parts of their growth . The wine made from grape juice from the supermarket will taste much worse than wine make from a vineyard .<>Wine is made from grapes, but not all grapes are suitable for making wine. There are many different varieties of grapes, and each one has its own unique characteristics that make it more or less suitable for making wine. Some grapes are better for making red wine, while others are better for making white wine.\\n\\nThe specific region where a grape is grown can also have a big impact on the final wine. Different regions have different climates, soils, and growing conditions, which can all affect the grapes and the wine they produce. For example, the region of Burgundy in France has a cool climate and well-draining soils that are well suited to growing grapes for wine. Napa Valley in California has a warm climate and rocky soils that are also well suited to growing grapes for wine.\\n\\nSo, while grapes can grow all over the world, certain regions are more suitable for growing grapes for wine because of their unique combination of climate, soils, and growing conditions.<>reddit_eli5