Why does moving my hair sometimes hurt my scalp if I have n't showered ? Like if I move my hair to change the style , why does doing that hurt my scalp ? Explain like I'm five.<>Imagine I have some putty and a pencil . I put some putty on a table in a gob and then stick a pencil right in the middle of it . At first everything stays pretty much the same . The pencil stays upright and the putty does n't really move . But after a couple of hours you would notice that the putty has drooped a little but and that the pencil is leaning just a little bit to the side . The hole from where you stabbed the putty is still fine though , it wraps around the pencil airtight . Next imagine I go to stand that pencil back up so that it 's perfectly straight . When I do , I have to displace some of the putty out of the way from where I stabbed the pencil . Now instead of a perfect , pencil - sized , hole in my putty I have a slightly deformed oval . Now imagine the putty is your scalp and the pencil is a single hair on your head . Easy enough , right ?<>Sometimes if you haven't washed your hair in a while, your scalp can get a little bit dry and sensitive. When you move your hair around, it can tug on your scalp a little bit and that can cause a feeling of pain or discomfort. It's kind of like when you wear a shirt that's a little bit too tight around your neck - it might feel a little bit uncomfortable or even painful if you move around too much. Washing your hair regularly can help keep your scalp healthy and reduce the chance of it feeling painful or sensitive when you move your hair around.<>Sometimes if you haven't washed your hair in a while, your scalp can get a little bit dry and sensitive. When you move your hair around, it can tug on your scalp a little bit and that can cause a feeling of pain or discomfort. It's kind of like when you wear a shirt that's a little bit too tight around your neck - it might feel a little bit uncomfortable or even painful if you move around too much. Washing your hair regularly can help keep your scalp healthy and reduce the chance of it feeling painful or sensitive when you move your hair around.<>reddit_eli5