What is the Mars One missions to Mars and is it really possible and going to happen ? Do they have the funding , technology , proper sanity , ect Please explain like I'm five.<>Hey there , aerospace engineer here who has experience in the space industry , and with college level mission design and analysis specifically oriented towards manned Mars missions . Mars one does not have the funding , technology , resources , time , scientific understanding , or technical acumen needed to pull off a mission of the caliber they are proposing . For their mission to succeed , several major things will need to change ; most are completely outside of the organization 's control . First , they will need an exorbitant amount of funds . Their projected plan is to use around $ 6 billion . Not only is this a ludicrously small amount , it 's a pretty sure sign of just how serious their program is ( not at all ) . As a conservative estimate , $ 20 billion is probably a better first guess for development of a Mars surface habitat capable of sustaining 4 people for a number of years . Cost drivers include a complete lack of appropriate Mars EDL ( entry , decent , and landing ) capabilities for large cargo , lack of a properly secured life support and resource utilization loop , launch and in space propulsion costs ( which alone would cost more than their projected mission costs to put several dozen tons of cargo on Mars ) , and other similarly large obstacles that require a good deal of funding well before their company will be able to sell the media rights to anyone ( and as far as I , or anyone else in the public is aware , no one is interested in buying to the tune of $ 6 + billion ) . Technology , science , and R & D : as I 've already pointed out , there are huge technical gaps left to completing a Mars mission , even ignoring the whole \" bring your astronauts home \" problem . Launch costs , Mars EDL , and life support are only the most visible and ( probably ) most costly examples . There are a huge variety of additional technical hurdles that Mars one has made little to no effort to adequately address . No human has ever spend more than a few days in an environment between 1 and 0 g 's . No one has created ISRU capabilities that are ready for industrial use and consumption on Mars . No one has used machines to remotely construct a habitat in a space - like environment , beyond self constructing satellites . No one has built structures on Mars ; the long term corrosive and erosive effects are not understood or adequately modelable on Earth . No one has sampled Martian soil , or measured it 's effects as a possible radiation shield ; without knowing how effective it is , it 's impossible to determine how much needs to be used to safely accommodate your astronauts , and thus how strong your structure needs to be to support it . No one has studied the psychological effects operating on astronauts embarking on known one way missions ; it is difficult to predict how team dynamics will play out , and how the astronaut 's sanity and productivity will be impacted . I could go on , but I think the point is clear . As far as time goes , their proposed schedule is as questionable as their budget , if not more so . With an initial funding of less than a few million dollars , they plan to have a custom built rover designed , built , launched , and to land on Mars by the early 2020 's . Let that sink in for a moment . This sort of endeavor takes many millions of dollars , and years just to develop . Their reason for optimism ? That they are going to reuse designs . To anyone who 's worked in the space program , this is a dubious way to save time and money . While it 's certainly better than starting from scratch ( in some cases ) , entire aspects of the rover 's design will always need to be re - examined , re built , re optimized , re analyzed , and re assessed for their impacts on the surrounding structure . I ca n't go to Lockheed Martin and buy another Mars rover , for buy one get one free . These things are n't bicycles , they are some of the most complicated pieces of robotic equipment designed and built . Testing alone takes years , unless you have the money to burn and risk to take to accelerate the schedule . And again , almost all of their proposed structures are going to need to be designed , redesigned , built , tested , redesigned , rebuilt , and retested from scratch , over many years and for billions of dollars . Their assessment of and relationship to the aerospace industry is also questionable . A true development plan does not consist of \" We will pay companies to design and build components to meet our needs \" . You ca n't go to one company , pay for a Mars rover to build your habitat , then go to another and pay for a habitat , then get to Mars and expect them to work together . You need teamwork , integration , cross compatible requirements and design considerations , communication between organizations concerned about intellectual property , profits , and competition , systems level testing and program management , clear program driving factors , and everything else that goes into making a mission like Apollo or ISS or Skylab work . To give one more , truly solid idea of just how unrealistic their plans are , consider this . To get to the moon on Apollo 8 , three astronauts launched atop a Saturn V in an Apollo CSM . The command \/ service module had a mass of almost 30 metric tons . It could support three astronauts for two weeks , with around 2 cubic meters of space for each astronaut . At the end of that journey , it was discarded . It had no ability to recycle food or water or air , or generate power . And it was launched on that journey by the Saturn V , the largest rocket ever to launch humans into space , a rocket that had more than twice the payload capacity of the Falcon Heavy , Mars one 's proposed launch vehicle . It took the full force of the US government , spending billions of dollars a year for almost a decade , to build the capabilities to travel to the moon , and the tools , engineering base , and equipment involved . Have spacecraft come significantly further in the intervening decades ? Yes . Has our understanding of the problems involved with a Mars mission ? Yes . Are we considerably more ready to tackle the challenge ? Yes . But that does n't change the fundamental variables : you need mass . You need time . You need money . You need expertise . You need launchers . You need organization , skill , planning , coordination , and a bureaucratic machine built to handle the legal , regulatory , ethical , and political ramifications of the mission you are undertaking . These are the things Mars one lacks ; not ideas or enthusiasm or spirit , but manpower and money and influence .<>The Mars One mission was a proposed plan to send humans to live on Mars permanently. The idea was to send a group of people to the planet and establish a permanent human settlement there. The mission was planned to be funded through a combination of private investment and media rights. \nHowever, the Mars One mission was never actually carried out, and it is no longer being pursued. There were many questions and concerns about the feasibility of the mission, including whether it had the necessary funding, technology, and support to be successful. Some experts also raised concerns about the psychological and physical effects of living on Mars permanently, and whether it would be safe for humans to do so. \nOverall, it is currently not possible for humans to live on Mars permanently, and it is not clear when or if this will ever be possible. There are many challenges to overcome, including developing the necessary technology, figuring out how to sustain human life on the planet, and finding a way to pay for the mission. While there have been several successful missions to Mars by NASA and other space agencies, these have been short-term visits rather than permanent settlements.<>reddit_eli5