Should I make more conservative investments in my company 401(K) if I'm going to leave the job in a couple of years?<>Your retirement PLAN is a lifelong plan and shouldn't be tied to your employer status. Max out your 401(k) contribution to the maximum that your employer matches (that's a 100% ROI!) and as much as you can afford. When you leave the work force rollover your 401(k) to an IRA account (e.g.: you can create an IRA account with any of the online brokerage firms Schwab, E-Trade, Sharebuilder, or go with a brick-and-mortar firm like JP Morgan, Stifel Nicolaus, etc.). You should have a plan: How much money do you need\/month for your expenses? Accounting for inflation, how much is that going to be at retirement (whatever age you plan to retire)? How much money do you need to have so that 4.5% of that money will provide for your annual living expenses? That's your target retirement amount of savings. Now figure out how to get to that target. Rule #1 Invest early and invest often! The more money you can sock away early in your career the more time that money has to grow. If you aren't comfortable allocating your investments yourself then you could go with a Targeted Retirement Fund. These funds have a general \"date\" for retirement and the assets are allocated as appropriate for the amount of risk appropriate for the time to retirement.<>It can be a good idea to adjust your investment mix to be more conservative if you are planning to leave your job in the near future. This is because you will not have as much time to ride out any potential market downturns, so it may be more important for you to prioritize preservation of capital over maximizing returns. However, you should also consider your overall investment strategy and risk tolerance. If you have a long time horizon and are comfortable with a higher level of risk, you may be able to afford to stay invested in a more aggressive portfolio even if you are planning to leave your job in the near future. It's always a good idea to speak with a financial advisor or professional if you have specific questions about your investment strategy.<>finance