What is the permanent cure for back pain?im looking to get some help here? I have back problems and was given methadone for my pain. my dr left the practice and then got sick. my new dr signed me up for pain management and they put me on suboxone. hated the taste and did not do anything for my pain. right know I feel very sick (withdrawel). don't know what to do. please can someone help me don't know where to turn.<>Hello, Thanks for your query.You are suffering from what we call the industrial back ache. The first step is to ensure that you maintain an appropriate posture while working on the computer. Take frequent stretch breaks and drink lots of water. Discontinue using pillow while sleeping straight. Do not lift heavy objects, especially after bending down. Eat a healthy wholesome meal which should satisfy your minerals and proteins requirement.The most essential and long lasting remedy is exercises. There are certain back strengthening and neck isometric exercises that you must learn from a physiotherapist and perform them at home or work whenever possible. You can also undergo a weeks session of traction at your physiotherapist's clinic. I do hope that you have found something helpful and I will be glad to answer any further query.Take care<>I'm sorry to hear that you are experiencing back pain and are having difficulty finding relief. It is important to work with a healthcare professional to determine the best treatment plan for your specific needs.\n\nThere is no one-size-fits-all permanent cure for back pain, as the cause of the pain and the most effective treatment can vary widely from person to person. Treatment for back pain may include a combination of medications, physical therapy, and lifestyle changes, such as exercise and stress management.\n\nIf you are experiencing withdrawal symptoms from the medication you were prescribed, it is important to speak with a healthcare professional as soon as possible. Withdrawal from certain medications, including methadone and suboxone, can be dangerous and should be managed by a trained healthcare professional.\n\nI recommend that you speak with your healthcare provider about your concerns and any symptoms you are experiencing. They will be able to help you determine the best course of action and provide you with the necessary support and treatment. It is also a good idea to seek out additional support from friends, family, or a support group as you navigate this difficult time.<>medicine