Why is it that everything can tasted in the wine from the climate to the soil but pesticides are never mentioned ? How much do pesticides effect wine ? \" affect \" Please explain like I'm five.<>I make wine for a living . I could go on for hours about the bullshit propogated by sommeliers , but I will spare you the long read . There are really a very finite set of flavors you can taste in wine . Part of this is , of course trained expectation , but there is concrete scientific support for these flavors as well . For example , when we make artificial vanilla extract , it more or less tastes like real vanilla . This is because they synthesize a compound called vanillin , which makes up the majority of the \" vanilla flavor \" you get if you eat an actual vanilla bean . In spite of this , there are over 300 flavor compounds identified that contribute to the flavor of natural vanilla . This same principle is true for most of the flavors you know . In wine you have an enormously complex system of bacteria and yeast that manipulate the chemicals ( think naturally occurring grape constituents ) in grapes . During this process they will often produce compounds we are familiar with , such as key flavor compounds in fruits . Because of this , we can say we taste citrus , or tropical fruit ( banana , pineapple , mango etc . ) . This is further substantiated by something called Mass Spectrometry . This is basically a fancy instrument that can tell us what chemical compounds are in a solution ( in this case wine ) . I encourage you to buy a Sauvignon Blanc at the grocery ( it does n't have to be anything fancy , but preferably something in a regular wine bottle ) and sit down with a WINE glass . Concentrate , and see if you can identify citrus flavors . This is often the easiest place to start , and I can almost assure you , you will be successful ! I will not attempt to refute the claim that brand perception heavily influences the perception of wine quality , but one could make this claim for virtually every product in the marketplace today . The studies that showed sommeliers were unable to identify red vs. white wine , were somewhat flawed . That being said , I think this underscores the human mind 's susceptibility to suggestion . You can read quite a bit about the implications of these studies with a few Google searches if you are interested . Finally , the notion that pesticides to not influence flavor is not true . I highly encourage you to find a so called \" natural wine . \" These have not been treated with sulfur , and as a result the natural bacteria ( and to a much lesser extent , yeast ) are allowed to ferment the grape juice unchecked . This often produces a very sour and unpleasant wine . Conversely , if you were able to find a vineyard that was treated with sulfur right before harvest , you would find this impacted the flavor in a very very bad way . Oversulfured wine is hard to describe , but just try to imagine eating a rancid egg . You will never find this for sale , as we are required to report our sulfur levels , and wine with a high enough sulfur level to taste like this would never make it to market . On a much less extreme note , there is a movement away from using moderate levels of sulfur , as we believe it may mute the delicate flavors of the wine , by killing the bacteria essential in producing the flavor compounds you recognize as citrus etc . Feel free to PM me if you have any more questions , or want more clarification ! Hope I helped :)<>Pesticides are chemicals that are used to protect crops from pests, diseases, and weeds. In the case of wine grapes, pesticides can be used to help protect the grapes from pests and diseases that can harm the plants or reduce the quality of the grapes. While pesticides can be effective at protecting crops, they can also have negative impacts on the environment and on the people who work with them.When it comes to the taste of wine, there are many factors that can contribute to its flavor and aroma, including the climate, soil, and the type of grape that was used to make the wine. Pesticides can also potentially affect the taste of wine, although the extent to which they do so is not well understood. Some people believe that pesticides can contribute to off-flavors in wine, while others argue that the effect is minimal.Overall, it's important for winemakers to use pesticides responsibly and to follow safety guidelines when applying them. Some winemakers choose to use organic or biodynamic techniques, which rely on natural methods of pest and disease control, in order to avoid the use of synthetic pesticides.<>Pesticides are chemicals that are used to protect crops from pests, diseases, and weeds. In the case of wine grapes, pesticides can be used to help protect the grapes from pests and diseases that can harm the plants or reduce the quality of the grapes. While pesticides can be effective at protecting crops, they can also have negative impacts on the environment and on the people who work with them.When it comes to the taste of wine, there are many factors that can contribute to its flavor and aroma, including the climate, soil, and the type of grape that was used to make the wine. Pesticides can also potentially affect the taste of wine, although the extent to which they do so is not well understood. Some people believe that pesticides can contribute to off-flavors in wine, while others argue that the effect is minimal.Overall, it's important for winemakers to use pesticides responsibly and to follow safety guidelines when applying them. Some winemakers choose to use organic or biodynamic techniques, which rely on natural methods of pest and disease control, in order to avoid the use of synthetic pesticides.<>reddit_eli5