What happens when you post a video of someone else without their permission ? What legal action can they take against you ? Got myself in a bit of a pickle . Someone is threatening action . I found a video and did a remix . Explain like I'm five.<>Some very important information is needed : What state was the video made in ? Did you record the video or did someone else ? Was the video recorded in a public or in a private setting ? Did the person being recorded know they were being recorded ?<>Posting a video of someone else without their permission can be a violation of their privacy rights and may also infringe on their copyright if they own the content of the video. If the person in the video has not given you permission to use their image or likeness, they may be able to take legal action against you for invasion of privacy. Similarly, if the person owns the copyright to the content of the video, they may be able to take legal action against you for copyright infringement.\r\n\r\nIt's important to respect the rights of others and to obtain permission before using someone else's content or image. If you are unsure about whether you have permission to use a video or other content, it's always a good idea to seek legal advice or to err on the side of caution and not use the content without permission.<>Posting a video of someone else without their permission can be a violation of their privacy rights and may also infringe on their copyright if they own the content of the video. If the person in the video has not given you permission to use their image or likeness, they may be able to take legal action against you for invasion of privacy. Similarly, if the person owns the copyright to the content of the video, they may be able to take legal action against you for copyright infringement.\r\n\r\nIt's important to respect the rights of others and to obtain permission before using someone else's content or image. If you are unsure about whether you have permission to use a video or other content, it's always a good idea to seek legal advice or to err on the side of caution and not use the content without permission.<>reddit_eli5