Why are patents a bad thing ? With all the patent troll news in the past few months , I 've been seeing a lot of comments about patents being an outdated and unnecessary idea . Why is this ? Explain like I'm five.<>Patents are not necessarily a bad idea , it is just that they need to be reformed for the modern era . Patents are meant to protect little guys that go and make inventions and sell them from large corporations stealing their stuff . One of the original benefits of patents was they granted a short - term monopoly in exchange for the eventual release of trade secrets . These days , the trade secrets get out anyway because people can reverse engineer stuff and have access to a wealth of publicly available knowledge like never before , so now we just have a short term monopoly with no trade off , which is bad . Today patents are mainly used for anti - competitive uses and their benefits to society are pretty much negligible . An example of this would be an iPhone . Apple has a patent on the latest iPhone , but this is pretty useless considering if you give me an iPhone and a few days , I can give you a full report on exactly how it works , yet apple still keeps their patent and uses it to try and beat other guys out of the market . Hope this helps . Edit : Fixed a word I accidentally in the first sentence<>Patents are a type of legal protection that allows inventors to prevent other people from making, using, or selling their invention for a certain number of years. This can be a good thing because it gives inventors the time and freedom they need to develop their ideas and make money from them, which can help encourage innovation.\n\nHowever, patents can also be a bad thing because they can be used to block others from using certain ideas or technologies. For example, a company with a patent on a particular technology might try to prevent other companies from using that technology, even if it would be helpful for those companies or for society as a whole. This can slow down progress and make it harder for people to access new technologies.\n\nAnother problem with patents is that they can be used by \"patent trolls,\" which are companies or individuals that try to make money by suing other companies for using patented technologies without permission. This can be costly and time-consuming for the companies that are being sued, and it can discourage innovation.\n\nOverall, patents can be a helpful tool for protecting inventors and encouraging innovation, but they can also be misused or cause problems if they are not used responsibly.<>reddit_eli5