Should I be concerned for lump below skull?after a visit to dentist yesterday and concern I have an infeciton somewhere, I noticed a small hard lump while shampooing my hair this morning. It is just below my skull about 1-1.5 in. to the left of spine. It is tender but no significant pain. Should i be more concerned or is this a gland or something?<>Hi,It seems that this might be due to enlarged lymph node due to some infection in the mouth like teeth or on scalp.consult your doctor and get examined.Ok and take care.<>It is not uncommon to develop lumps or bumps on the skin, and most of the time they are benign (non-cancerous). However, it is always a good idea to have any new lumps or bumps evaluated by a healthcare provider to determine the cause.\n\nIt is possible that the lump you described could be a gland, but it is also important to consider other potential causes. Some possible causes of a lump below the skull could include:\n\nA cyst: A cyst is a closed sac containing fluid, gas, or other substances. Cysts can occur anywhere in the body and may feel hard or soft.\n\nA tumor: A tumor is an abnormal growth of cells. Some tumors are cancerous (malignant) and some are not (benign).\n\nAn abscess: An abscess is a collection of pus that has accumulated in a cavity formed by the tissue in which it is located. Abscesses can be caused by infections, trauma, or other factors.\n\nIt is important to see a healthcare provider for an evaluation and proper diagnosis. The provider will perform a physical examination and may order additional tests, such as imaging studies or a biopsy, to determine the cause of the lump.\n\nIn the meantime, try to avoid touching or manipulating the lump, as this could potentially spread any infection that may be present. If you have any other symptoms, such as fever, chills, or difficulty swallowing, be sure to mention these to your healthcare provider.<>It is not uncommon to develop lumps or bumps on the skin, and most of the time they are benign (non-cancerous). However, it is always a good idea to have any new lumps or bumps evaluated by a healthcare provider to determine the cause.\n\nIt is possible that the lump you described could be a gland, but it is also important to consider other potential causes. Some possible causes of a lump below the skull could include:\n\nA cyst: A cyst is a closed sac containing fluid, gas, or other substances. Cysts can occur anywhere in the body and may feel hard or soft.\n\nA tumor: A tumor is an abnormal growth of cells. Some tumors are cancerous (malignant) and some are not (benign).\n\nAn abscess: An abscess is a collection of pus that has accumulated in a cavity formed by the tissue in which it is located. Abscesses can be caused by infections, trauma, or other factors.\n\nIt is important to see a healthcare provider for an evaluation and proper diagnosis. The provider will perform a physical examination and may order additional tests, such as imaging studies or a biopsy, to determine the cause of the lump.\n\nIn the meantime, try to avoid touching or manipulating the lump, as this could potentially spread any infection that may be present. If you have any other symptoms, such as fever, chills, or difficulty swallowing, be sure to mention these to your healthcare provider.<>medicine