How does communism exactly work ? What are the finer details about communism ? How do people receive currency ? How is the amount of currency they receive calculated ? How does the economy work and how do citizens interact with each other ? Explain like I'm five. <>Different kinds of communism , known as \" tendencies \" , have different views about this but most Communists follow Marx 's thoughts on \" dialectical materialism \" . That basically says that human nature is shaped by human society and so by changing society we can change human nature . And it 's not just that we can but we will , we can not not . So human nature and society is constantly changing and evolving and so the only thing we can say with confidence about future society is that it will be different to now . Communists are trying to shape this future society in the direction of communism . Communism is the idea of a moneyless , stateless , classless utopia based upon the idea of \" from each according to what they can do to each according to their need \" Some of them have attempted to answer the questions you are asking , but they are basically just guessing and you should ignore them . The real answer is that we do n't know , and we wo n't know until we get there . So we 're just going to try and shape future society in the direction of more freedom and equality and see where that gets us . Marx did make some suggestions in terms of defining principles with which to attempt to build and change a future society : - Property is theft . What this means is that no one has a moral right to the stuff that they think is theirs . If you chop a branch off a tree and use that branch to make a walking stick you might think that that is \" your \" walking stick , that you have earned . But actually you never would have been able to do so without the explorer who first scouted out the path to that tree , the blacksmith that made the axe you used to chop off the branch , the teacher who taught you how to make a walking stick , the cook that gave you the meal to give you the strength to do so , and the inventors of walking sticks , axes , paths , meals etc ... So you actually owe a debt to all these people and the walking stick is as much theirs as it is yours . And that 's a very direct example of created value . Most forms of value are even more indirect and so the amount of the value you have gained that you owe to the others who helped you get to that point is even greater . - Ownership is wage theft . Say you work in a shoe factory . You take $ 5 of material and turn them into $ 30 shoes . The owner of the shoe factory pays you $ 5 per shoe . It costs them maybe $ 5 per shoe to run the factory . The owner does nothing at all , but still makes $ 15 per shoe . But they have n't done anything for that money . That $ 15 per shoe should be yours . That is wage theft , the owner has no moral right to that money . - Rent is theft . We earn more from capital than labour . That is wrong . Thomas Picketty wrote a great book which updates this for the 21st century . Google r > g. Basically most money is n't earned by people working . It 's earned by rich people using their money to make more money without any action on their part . So say interest , shares , the value of your house going up over time , or your owning of a company which makes money : all these are examples of rent . You just sit there getting richer without doing any work . Marx says rent is theft . Picketty goes further and says the consequence of rent is that the rich will always be able to make more money without working than workers can by working , and so the gap between rich and poor is always going to grow . In addition most communists , Marx included , feel that the path to communism is socialism . Socialism is the idea that workplaces should be democratically controlled . Happy to answer any other questions you have about communism .<>Communism is a political and economic ideology that aims to create a classless, stateless society in which the means of production are owned and controlled by the community as a whole. Under communism, the government controls the economy and there is no private property. Instead of using money, the government provides each person with what they need, such as food, housing, and healthcare.\\n\\nIn a communist society, people receive what they need based on their contributions to the community. For example, a doctor might receive more resources than a teacher because the doctor's work is considered more valuable to the community.\\n\\nIn a communist economy, the government decides how to produce and distribute goods and services. This is different from a capitalist economy, where private businesses make these decisions based on profit.\\n\\nCommunism is based on the idea that everyone should contribute to the community according to their abilities and receive from the community according to their needs. The goal is to create a more equal society where everyone has access to the resources they need to live a good life.<>reddit_eli5