What is the practical use for integration ? I get that derivatives are used to find rates of change like velocity and acceleration , but how is finding the area under a curve useful ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Lots and lots of things . This is kind of simplified , but you can think of integration as a kind of reverse differentiation . Another visualisation : In differentiation you are trying to understand a single slice of the big picture , in integration you are attempting to understand and analyse the whole . Differentiation is useful when you want to analyse a single segment of the curve , while in integration , we are trying to ascertain what the whole curve can tell us in the entire time \/ space \/ e.t.c that we are interested in - integration adds up the slices under the curve , in effect adding up the differentiated values . Using your example : If you plot out the position traveled by a car against the time , you will be able to obtain a distance - time curve . You know that the differentiating of a function of distance w.r.t time will give you a function for velocity . Let 's say you work this function out and compute the results for every point so that you have a curve of velocity w.r.t . time from the initial distance - time curve . You then pass this curve to someone else , let 's call her X , who wants to know the total distance traveled by the car , but does not want to ask you ( haha ) . By integrating the curve , X will be able to find the total distance traveled . As a very simple rule of thumb , any function at involves multiplication will require you to perform integration , while anything with division will require differentiation . For the example of a velocity - time curve : distance = velocity x time = = > integration of velocity - time curve ( yes , the area under a v - t curve will give you the distance travelled ) acceleration = velocity \/ time = = > differentiation of velocity - time curve As a result , integration has multitude of uses in physics , particularly when the effects of a small unit ( of time \/ space ) are known , but not across the entire surface \/ volume \/ timespan of interest . Hope this was not explained too badly ! Edit : Grammar<>Integration is a way to find the total amount of something. It's like if you have a bunch of little pieces of something, and you want to know how much you have in total.Imagine you have a bunch of cookies, and you want to know how many cookies you have in total. You could count them one by one, but that would take a long time. Instead, you could measure how much space the cookies take up and use that to figure out how many cookies you have.This is kind of like what integration does. Instead of cookies, it might be measuring something like how much water is flowing through a pipe, or how much weight is being supported by a beam. By finding the total amount of something, we can use that information to solve all sorts of problems.For example, if you want to know how much water is flowing through a pipe over a certain period of time, you can use integration to find the total amount of water that flowed through the pipe. This can be really useful if you're trying to figure out how much water you need to pump to a certain place, or how much water you need to store.I hope that helps! Let me know if you have any more questions.<>reddit_eli5