Why do so many languages employ the \" masculine\"\/\"feminine \" type nouns ? English seems to do just fine without gendered nouns so why is it that most other languages have gendered nouns?Just wondering what the point is and how they all converged on the same basic structure . Please explain like I'm five.<>Gender is not a vital feature- and there are lots and lots of grammatical features which are not vital but languages have them anyway . English for example has tense , which many languages do not have and are fine without . \" Extra \" features such as gender and tense help communicate more information- making sentances more compact , less ambiguous , and freeing up word order . Gender specifically is common becuase of historical accident . Proto - Indo - European had gender and it spread like crazy across Europe and South Asia . As a European language , English is actually a bit strange for not having gender .<>Gendered nouns, also known as grammatical gender, are a way that many languages classify nouns and pronouns. In languages with grammatical gender, each noun is assigned a gender, usually masculine or feminine, and the gender of the noun often determines the form of other words in a sentence, such as articles and adjectives.It's not clear why so many languages have developed grammatical gender, but it is thought to be a feature that has evolved over time in many different language families. Some theories suggest that grammatical gender may have originally been based on natural gender (the gender of living beings as male or female), but in many languages, the connection between grammatical gender and natural gender is not very strong.English is unusual in that it does not have grammatical gender, at least not in the same way as many other languages. Instead, English relies on natural gender to determine the gender of pronouns and other words that refer to people or animals. For example, we use \"he\" to refer to a male person and \"she\" to refer to a female person. In English, the gender of a noun is usually indicated by the pronoun that is used to refer to it.It's worth noting that not all languages have grammatical gender, and some languages have more than two genders. For example, some Native American languages have a gender system with multiple classes, such as animate and inanimate.<>reddit_eli5