How is Gravity Equivalent to Acceleration ? ( General Relativity ) Please explain like I'm five.<>Imagine that you are in a room with no windows . There is no experiment that you can do inside that room to tell the difference between being on the surface of the Earth and being accelerated in outer space with a force of 1 gravity . You could jump . You could weigh yourself on a scale . You could drop a ball and measure how long it takes to fall . Everything you try will be * * exactly * * the same . This is the sense in which they are equivalent .<>Sure! In general relativity, gravity is not a force that acts between masses like it is in classical physics. Instead, gravity is a manifestation of the curvature of spacetime caused by the presence of matter or energy. Imagine that spacetime is like a rubber sheet, and objects with mass or energy cause a depression in the rubber sheet. The curvature of the rubber sheet then causes other objects to be \"pulled\" towards the massive object, as if it were a gravitational force. \nNow, imagine that you are standing on a trampoline with a bowling ball in the center. If you were to roll a smaller ball towards the bowling ball, the smaller ball would be \"pulled\" towards the bowling ball due to the depression in the trampoline caused by the bowling ball's mass. This is similar to how objects are \"pulled\" towards each other due to gravity in general relativity. \nBut what does this have to do with acceleration? In classical physics, acceleration is the rate at which an object's velocity changes over time. In general relativity, an object's velocity is determined by the path it follows through spacetime. If the path is curved, the object will appear to be accelerating, even if it is not actually changing its velocity. \nFor example, imagine that you are standing on the trampoline again, but this time you are rolling a ball in a straight line towards the bowling ball. As the ball approaches the bowling ball, it will start to follow the curve of the trampoline, and it will appear to be accelerating towards the bowling ball. This is similar to how an object orbiting a massive object, like the Earth orbiting the Sun, appears to be accelerating towards the Sun, even though it is actually following a straight path through curved spacetime. \nI hope this helps! Let me know if you have any questions.<>reddit_eli5