Where did all the common names come from and when did this era occur ? Ex : Sir issac and Napoleon then all of a sudden james and bob . When did the name change happen ? And more importantly why ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Well . Names are very generation - based . Since we have a tendancy to pick up cues from our social surrounding , some names become popular . Eventually they will start to define ( loosley ) the generation . Those names will start to sound like old people , so parents will call their children something else , etc etc . It takes a few generations for names to circulate . My youngest nephew is named something I would expect to be a name of a 104 year old man with a Cap and cane . Also , a large influx of immigrants will introduce new names into the common cognition . These names will often undergo alterations to fit with the language and style of speech . Some names are chosen as a concept that represents the parents midset and joy of childbirth . Like the popular name Hope . Some are chosen for their beauty , like Rose , Lilly . And then there are just names that are wierd and chosen by the parents because they are ignorant and seek attention . North West And then there are even wierder ass combo constructed names : Charonella , Shaniqua And then there are names because the parents have burned away most of their brain with drugs : Vodka , Dime - bag , etc . Names always represent something . It might not still be apparent . But they always carry a meaning . So even though I had some harsh judgements above . In reality names are born out of the human cognition . So to explain why name - changes occurred , you would have to go to the ideografic level . Some are a break with social norms that are less than accommodating to the parents ( oppression ) , some are chosen because they are somewhat unique , some are chosen because they afford easy acceptance . Some are named after idols , some are named after important people to the parent . Then again , we do tend to think alike . So patterns appear .<>Common names have come from many different sources and have changed over time for a variety of reasons. Some names are derived from ancient cultures and languages, while others are more modern and have been created more recently. One reason that names have changed over time is that different cultures and languages have influenced each other. For example, many English names have been influenced by Latin, French, and other languages. Another reason that names have changed is that fashion and trends have changed. Just like with clothing or hairstyles, certain names have been more popular at different times. It's also important to note that different parts of the world have different naming traditions and trends. Some cultures have a long history of using certain types of names, while others have a more diverse mix of names.<>reddit_eli5