Noise Isolating headphones vs Noise Cancelling I see lots of headphones that are Noise Cancelling or Noise Isolating . What 's the difference and how do they work ? Explain like I'm five. <>noise isolating . consider this ear plugs that have earbuds in them . THey block outside noise by providing a noise reducing barrier . In fact my isolation earbuds are so good I use them as Earplugs when using a circular saw or mowing the lawn . NO music and not even plugged in . Noise Cancelling Headphones that essentially listen to ambient noise and produce an opposite sound wave to blank out the unwanted sound . Fill your bathtub with water . Drop two rocks into the tub one at each end . When the waves collide you will see a spot where the water seems calm because the waves are cancelling each other out . Noise cancelling headphones produce this negative wave by listening in to the outside noise and producing the opposite wave to cancel out the wave just like in the water .<>Noise cancelling and noise isolating headphones both help to reduce the amount of outside noise that you can hear while you are listening to music or other audio. However, they work in slightly different ways:\\n\\nNoise cancelling headphones use a microphone to pick up the outside noise, and then they use special algorithms to create a sound wave that is the opposite of the outside noise. This sound wave is called an \"anti-noise\" wave. When the anti-noise wave is played through the headphones, it cancels out or reduces the volume of the outside noise.\\n\\nNoise isolating headphones, on the other hand, do not use any kind of technology to cancel out the outside noise. Instead, they are designed to create a physical barrier between your ear and the outside noise. This can be done in a few different ways, such as using ear cups that completely cover your ears, or using materials that are designed to block out sound.\\n\\nSo, to explain it in simple terms: noise cancelling headphones use special technology to cancel out the outside noise, while noise isolating headphones physically block out the outside noise. Both types of headphones can be effective at reducing the amount of noise that you hear, but noise cancelling headphones may be more effective at cancelling out lower frequency noises (like the hum of an airplane engine) while noise isolating headphones may be better at blocking out higher frequency noises (like people talking).<>reddit_eli5