Biologically , do women need to have orgasms ? Biologically , men should have orgasm to ejaculate and to put the sperm in women 's vagina to be able to have kids . But why should women have orgasms ? Please explain like I'm five.<>Because if sex is not pleasant for them , the men are much less likely to ejaculate into their vaginas .<>Orgasms are not necessary for women to have children. It is possible for a woman to become pregnant without having an orgasm during sexual activity. However, orgasms can be a pleasurable and enjoyable part of sexual activity for both men and women. They can also help to reduce stress and improve physical and emotional well-being. In terms of biology, it is not clear why women experience orgasms. Some researchers believe that orgasms may have evolved as a way to encourage bonding and emotional intimacy between partners, while others think that they may serve to increase the likelihood of pregnancy by helping to retain sperm inside the body. It is important to note that everyone is different and that some people may not experience orgasms at all, or may experience them differently. It is also important to remember that there are many different ways to enjoy and be intimate with a partner, and that orgasms are just one aspect of sexual activity.<>Orgasms are not necessary for women to have children. It is possible for a woman to become pregnant without having an orgasm during sexual activity. However, orgasms can be a pleasurable and enjoyable part of sexual activity for both men and women. They can also help to reduce stress and improve physical and emotional well-being. In terms of biology, it is not clear why women experience orgasms. Some researchers believe that orgasms may have evolved as a way to encourage bonding and emotional intimacy between partners, while others think that they may serve to increase the likelihood of pregnancy by helping to retain sperm inside the body. It is important to note that everyone is different and that some people may not experience orgasms at all, or may experience them differently. It is also important to remember that there are many different ways to enjoy and be intimate with a partner, and that orgasms are just one aspect of sexual activity.<>reddit_eli5