What is quantum mechanics ? What is quantum physics mechanics ? What is a real world application for it ? What type of career uses this regularly ? Explain like I'm five.<>Physics as we understand them seem to break down once we look on a small enough level . Quantum Mechanics is a field that attempts to comprehend the weirdness on the level of electrons ( real small particles \/ waves ) . The go - to metaphor for understanding QM is Schrodinger 's Cat ( Schrodinger was a famous quantum mechanics physicist , and this is his thought experiment ): * * * Imagine you put a cat inside of a heavily fortified box . Inside that box , you put a bomb that has an absolutely 50 % chance of exploding in a given amount of time . Now , on our level of physics , we would assume that when you look inside the box , the cat is alive or the cat is dead , with a 50 % probability of each outcome . If you open the box , and the cat is dead , you can assume \" the bomb went off \" . If you open the box , and the cat is alive , you can assume \" the bomb did not go off \" . With QM , however , it 's not so simple . There is a lot of math behind what I 'm about to explain , and it does all check out , but it is incredibly hard for us to understand . So let 's say the given amount of time has passed , and it is time for us to look in the box . * * According to QM , before you look inside the box , the cat is both in an alive state , and in a dead state , and the bomb both did and did not go off * * . It is only when you look inside an see either an alive or dead cat that the cat actually becomes either alive or dead . Prior to looking in , it was both at the same time . * \" What ? ! \" * you say ? * \" That makes no sense ! \" * And you 'd be right . But this is why QM is so confusing , because on our scale of the universe , this type of effect makes no sense . But on the quantum scale , it makes perfect sense . * * * If we try to look at an electron , it 's crazy . An electron 's position is * not defined * by where it was a second ago , it is defined by what 's called a probability cloud . That is to say that an electron has an X% chance of being over here , and a Y% chance of being over there . We ca n't know for certain where it is until we actually look . This is because the electron is in what 's known as a superposition . It is simultaneously existing in * every place * at the same time , but when we look at it ( or ' observe ' ) , it seemingly chooses to be in one particular place . This ' choosing ' of its position is known as collapsing the particle 's wave function ( i.e. its probability of being in a particular place ) . It 's crazy confusing stuff , because logically we assume that it has to be at place A or place B , but it 's at both A and B at the same moment ! Further , somehow our viewing of the electron causes it to choose a position ! What does an observer have to do with * anything * ? That 's QM in a nutshell . I ca n't speak to careers in the field , but I assume most of the physicists at the Large Haldron Collider are QM engineers . There is also much research being put into Quantum Computing , which essentially harnesses the unpredictable nature of electrons to create insanely small computers that are exponentially way faster than our computers today . Let me know if you want me to rephrase or explain anything more .<>Quantum mechanics is a branch of physics that deals with the behavior of very small particles, such as atoms and subatomic particles. It is based on the idea that these particles can exist in multiple states or locations at the same time, and that their properties can be described using probabilities rather than definite values. One real-world application of quantum mechanics is in the field of computers. Quantum computers use the principles of quantum mechanics to perform calculations much faster than traditional computers. They are still being developed, but they have the potential to revolutionize fields such as drug discovery, weather prediction, and financial analysis. People who use quantum mechanics regularly include physicists, chemists, and engineers. They may work in research labs, universities, or companies that develop quantum technologies. To explain quantum mechanics like you're five: Imagine that you have a toy box with lots of different toys inside. Some of the toys can be in more than one place at the same time, and you don't always know exactly where they are. That's kind of like how quantum mechanics works with very small particles!<>Quantum mechanics is a branch of physics that deals with the behavior of very small particles, such as atoms and subatomic particles. It is based on the idea that these particles can exist in multiple states or locations at the same time, and that their properties can be described using probabilities rather than definite values. One real-world application of quantum mechanics is in the field of computers. Quantum computers use the principles of quantum mechanics to perform calculations much faster than traditional computers. They are still being developed, but they have the potential to revolutionize fields such as drug discovery, weather prediction, and financial analysis. People who use quantum mechanics regularly include physicists, chemists, and engineers. They may work in research labs, universities, or companies that develop quantum technologies. To explain quantum mechanics like you're five: Imagine that you have a toy box with lots of different toys inside. Some of the toys can be in more than one place at the same time, and you don't always know exactly where they are. That's kind of like how quantum mechanics works with very small particles!<>reddit_eli5