Does all the money in the world have a physical counterpart ( notes and coins ) ? My friend said 80 % of money in the world does n't have a physical counterpart . If so ? How did that money come into the system ? Thanks . Explain like I'm five.<>No , not all money has a physical counterpart . The problem is deciding what you count as ' money ' , and this debate is expounded on in your introductory money and banking economics class . [ This article ] ( URL_1 ) gives the basics . See also [ this Wikipedia article ] ( URL_0 ) To summarize : money is anything we use as a means of representing work or value being exchanged between people . It typically has three characteristics : it is a unit of account , meaning it can show the relative value between two objects or between an object 's past and current value ; it is a store of value , meaning the money does n't lose ( most of ) its inherent value over periods of time ; and it is a medium of exchange , meaning people accept the money as a means of trading goods or services . Because of the ' store of value ' characteristic , things like savings accounts can be considered money , depending on what definition you use . The Federal Reserve has several categories depending on how broadly you define money , known as M1 , M2 , and M3 , plus other lesser used categories . Most visibly , your debit card is actually a charge on your savings account , which is not physically stored at the bank in cash but instead is recorded electronically . Thus , stores accept debit card charges despite it having nothing to do with cash . Similarly , credit cards also have no cash behind them , and are in fact loans from the credit card company to you each month , and yet most stores also accept this as a form of payment .<>Not all money in the world has a physical form, like notes and coins. In fact, most of the money that is used today is not physical, but exists only as electronic records. This is because it is easier and more efficient to use electronic money for most transactions.\n\nTo understand how electronic money works, it's helpful to think about how we use money in our everyday lives. When we go to the store to buy something, we usually pay for it with cash or a card. Cash is a physical form of money that we can hold in our hands, like notes and coins. But when we use a card to pay, we are not using physical money at all. Instead, the card is connected to a bank account, which is a kind of virtual place where we keep our money. When we use the card to pay for something, the money is transferred from our bank account to the store's bank account, without any physical money changing hands.\n\nElectronic money works in a similar way. Instead of using physical notes and coins, we can use electronic money to make payments and transfer funds between different accounts. This is done using a variety of methods, such as bank transfers, mobile payments, and online payment systems like PayPal. Electronic money is convenient and easy to use, and it has become the most common way that people around the world make payments and manage their finances.<>reddit_eli5