When is it better to rent and when is better buy in a certain property market?<>No magic answers here. Housing is a market, and the conditions in each local market vary. I think impact on cash flow is the best way to evaluate housing prices. In general, I consider a \"cheap\" home to cost 20% or less of your income, \"affordable\" between 20-30% and \"not affordable\" over 30%. When you start comparing rent vs. buy, there are other factors that you need to think about: Renting is an easy transaction. You're comparing prices in  a market that is usually pretty stable, and your risk and liability is low. The \"cost\" of the low risk is that you have virtually no prospects of recouping any value out of the cash that you are laying out for your home. Buying is more complex. You're buying a house, building equity and probably making money due to appreciation. You need to be vigilant about expenses and circumstances that affect the value of your home as an investment. If you live in a high-tax state like New York, an extra $1,200 in property taxes saps over $16,000 of buying (borrowing) power from a future purchaser of your home. If your HOA or condo association is run by a pack of idiots, you're going to end up paying through the nose for their mistakes. Another consideration is your tastes. If you tend to live above your means, you're not going to be able to afford necessary maintenance on the house that you paid too much for.<>There are several factors to consider when deciding whether to rent or buy a property in a particular market. Here are a few things to consider:Affordability: If you are unable to afford a down payment or the monthly mortgage payments on a property, it may be better to rent. However, if you have the financial resources to buy a home, it may make sense to do so, especially if you plan to stay in the same area for a long period of time.Market conditions: If the housing market is experiencing rapid price appreciation, it may be a good time to buy a property. On the other hand, if the market is stagnant or experiencing price declines, it may be better to rent.Flexibility: Renting allows for more flexibility, as you can usually give notice and move out more easily than if you own a home. If you are not sure how long you will be in a particular area or if you anticipate significant changes in your financial situation, it may be better to rent.Personal preference: Ultimately, the decision to rent or buy a property is a personal one and will depend on your individual circumstances and priorities.It's a good idea to carefully weigh the pros and cons of each option and to seek the advice of a financial professional before making a decision.<>finance