Time dilation How does it work ? An example would be helpful as well . Explain like I'm five.
Generally , time dilation means clocks that are moving differently , or that are in different places , wo n't necessarily tick at the same rate . Since we 're going to be talking about pairs of clocks here , let 's go ahead and imagine one . In our imagination , these clocks are * ideal . * They just work by magic , if you like . They do n't have moving parts , they ca n't run down , they never malfunction , whatever . They 're perfect time - counting devices that tick once every second , no exceptions , no matter what . For sake of having something to call them , we 'll call them Clock A and Clock B. If Clock A is moving relative to Clock B , then Clock A will tick more slowly than Clock B does . How much more slowly is a function of how fast Clock A is moving relative to Clock B. It 's not a linear relationship , though . At \" normal \" speeds — the speeds human beings move around at — the difference is so tiny it 's really tough to measure . But at unimaginably high speeds , the difference is significant . If Clock A were moving at about 86 % of the speed of light relative to Clock B , then Clock B would tick twice for every tick of Clock A. If you 're clever , you 've already noticed something weird . If Clock A is moving relative to Clock B , Clock A ticks slower … but if Clock A is moving relative to Clock B then Clock B is * also * moving relative to Clock A … and that means Clock B has to tick slower ! How can two clocks tick more slowly than each other ? The answer is they just do . If you work through the math it all becomes clear , but the crux of the thing is that in order to compare how much time has elapsed on the two clocks , you have to bring them together so you can look at them both . This will involve * accelerating * at least one of the two clocks . If you consider Clock A to be the stationary clock and say that Clock B is rocketing past at 86 % of the speed of light , in order to compare them you have to bring Clock B to rest relative to Clock A. This breaks the symmetry of the situation , and will mean that Clock A ended up measuring more elapsed time than Clock B did . Again , explaining this * in detail * requires math , but these are the core ideas . The other kind of time dilation is gravitational . The more gravity a clock \" feels , \" the slower it ticks . So a clock that 's in the basement will tick more slowly that a clock that 's on the roof . Again , the difference at the altitudes humans live at is so tiny as to be really hard to measure — not impossible ; this has been tested with very precise clocks . But it 's so slight you 'll never notice it as you ride elevators up and down . It turns out these two effects are very closely linked . Remember how I said that you have to accelerate Clock B to bring it together with Clock A and compare them , and that that acceleration breaks symmetry ? That 's exactly the same effect as gravitational time dilation . See , gravitational time dilation is n't really about * gravity * as much as it is about * not falling . * If you 're in a gravitational field , in order to * not fall * you have to * accelerate upward . * When you stand on a diving board , it 's the upward acceleration of the board pushing against you that keeps you from falling . If the board breaks , that upward acceleration goes away , and you fall . It 's the upward acceleration involved in not falling that causes gravitational time dilation , in the same way that accelerating one of two differently moving clocks to bring them together breaks symmetry and results in one clock having measured more elapsed time than the other . Here 's your example : GPS satellites have clocks on them . These clocks send out the radio equivalent of a regular tick . Your phone or whatever computes its position by listening to the ticks of multiple satellites and comparing the time between them . So time — the regularity of a clock 's ticks — is a vital part of GPS . GPS satellites are high up , in Earth orbit . That means the clocks on them tick faster than clocks at sea level . But GPS satellites are also moving pretty fast , which means the clocks on them tick more slowly than clocks at sea level . These two effects do n't quite cancel out . The faster ticking caused by altitude is a bigger effect than the slower ticking caused by relative motion , so the net result is that GPS clocks gain about 38 microseconds every day compared to stationary clocks at sea level . ( The altitude makes the clock gain 45 microseconds a day , but the speed makes the clock lose 7 microseconds a day , so the net difference is a gain of 38 microseconds a day . )
Time dilation is a phenomenon that occurs when two objects are in different states of motion relative to each other. If one object is moving very quickly and the other is stationary, time will appear to pass more slowly for the object that is moving.\n\nHere's an example: Imagine you have a clock and a stopwatch. You start both at the same time, and then you put the clock on a rocket ship that travels very fast through space. Meanwhile, you keep the stopwatch with you on Earth.\n\nWhen the rocket ship returns to Earth, you compare the time on the clock with the time on the stopwatch. You might find that the clock shows less time has passed than the stopwatch does. This is because time appears to pass more slowly for the clock on the rocket ship due to the effects of time dilation.\n\nThis phenomenon is predicted by Einstein's theory of relativity, which states that time and space are intertwined and can be affected by the presence of matter and energy. Time dilation is a real effect that has been observed and measured in experiments, and it has important implications for our understanding of the universe.
reddit_eli5
