Why does flash photography damage mosaics ? I was at Hagia Sophia in turkey , and they said that flash photograpy damaged mosaics . Why ? Explain like I'm five.<>It does n't . Current research on artifact preservation suggests that any light causes some damage , particularly to pigments and fibres . UV light is worse , but even visible light causes damage . Different types of artifacts are more sensitive to light damage . For example , in general , pastel on paper drawings are among the most sensitive to light damage , textiles are less sensitive , paintings even less so , mosaics and ceramics are even less sensitive , and metal or stone is the least sensitive of all . In the past there was some concern that short intense light could cause more damage than ambient light , but now all of the research shows that it 's only total energy than matters . Based on this , a camera flash is no worse than about 1s of normal light on an artifact . This might be a concern for something like the Mona Lisa which has several photos \/ s taken of it all day long , but is insignificant for most artifacts ( and when I was last at the Louvre , you were allowed to take flash photos of the Mona Lisa ) . If a museum does n't take real precautions to limit light exposure ( keep the artifact in a dim room , keep it covered , or only illuminated when a patron wants to look at it ) then there really is n't any reason to preclude flash photography . Banning it for mosaics is particularly silly . There may be other reasons the ban flash photography , such as that it annoys other people , or that when artifacts are behind glass it does n't work very well . A fairly readable discussion of the issues , with sources can be found [ here ] ( URL_0 ) .<>Flash photography can damage mosaics because the light from the flash is very bright and can cause the colors in the mosaic tiles to fade over time. Mosaics are made up of tiny pieces of colored stone or glass called tesserae, which are arranged in a pattern to create a picture or design. When the light from a flash hits a mosaic, it can cause the tesserae to become hot and this heat can cause the colors to fade or change.\r\n\r\nImagine you have a box of crayons and you use one of the crayons to color a picture. If you leave the crayon in the sun for a long time, the heat from the sun might make the crayon become softer and the color might fade or change. It's the same idea with a mosaic - the heat from the flash can cause the colors in the tesserae to fade or change over time. That's why it's important to be careful when using flash photography around mosaics.<>reddit_eli5