How do whiskey companies deal with the fact that the product they make today gets sold to a market 15 years in the future ? How do you respond to shifts in demand with a latency of 15 + years for the maturation of your product ? Explain like I'm five.<>If the demand is higher than predicted : * Raise prices , of course * Offer more whisky that has n't been aged as long . If a distillery produces both a 12 and an 18year bottling , they may choose to release more of the 12 year right away . Of course that means 6 years later they 'll have less available at 18 years . At that point they 'll either make less money or try to raise prices on the 18 . * Right now , some distilleries that traditionally offered only 12 year and older are starting to release younger whisky , such as 10 or even 8 year old . If demand is lower than predicted : * Hold some to sell later . * Release something called a \" bastard malt \" . That 's a whisky that does n't have the original distillery on the label , and is sold cheaper than the branded bottles . It 's not necessarily true that these bottles will be as good as the ones that carry the true distillery name . The taste of the whisky in every cask is different , so the best casks can be retained for the distillery brand . One thing that gives the distilleries a little more flexibility is that the age on the bottle does n't mean all the whisky in the bottle is exactly that many years old . It 's actually * minimum * age in the bottle . Everything in the bottle is at least that many years old , but may be older . \\ * Edit Fixed some typos that made me sound like I 'd had a dram or two before answering .<>Whiskey companies have to plan ahead and anticipate changes in demand for their products. They do this by keeping track of trends in the market and trying to predict what people will want to drink in the future. To make sure they have enough whiskey to meet future demand, they might make more whiskey today than they think they will need right now. This extra whiskey will be stored in barrels and left to age for several years. The aging process is an important part of making whiskey. As the whiskey sits in the barrel, it takes on the flavors and characteristics of the wood. The longer it ages, the more complex and refined the flavor becomes. So, even if the demand for whiskey changes over time, the whiskey that has already been made will still be of high quality. It's also worth noting that different types of whiskey have different aging requirements. For example, Scotch whisky must be aged for at least three years in oak barrels, while Bourbon must be aged for at least two years. So, even if the demand for a particular type of whiskey changes, the company will still have to wait for the whiskey to reach the minimum aging requirement before it can be sold. I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.<>reddit_eli5