Please explain what is \"HAL 9000\"<>HAL 9000 is a fictional artificial intelligence character and the main antagonist in Arthur C. Clarke's Space Odyssey series.  First appearing in the 1968 film 2001: A Space Odyssey, HAL (Heuristically programmed ALgorithmic computer) is a sentient artificial general intelligence computer that controls the systems of the Discovery One spacecraft and interacts with the ship's astronaut crew. While part of HAL's hardware is shown toward the end of the film, he is mostly depicted as a camera lens containing a red or yellow dot, with such units located throughout the ship. HAL 9000 is voiced by Douglas Rain in the two feature film adaptations of the Space Odyssey series. HAL speaks in a soft, calm voice and a conversational manner, in contrast to the crewmen, David Bowman and Frank Poole.\nIn the film, HAL became operational on 12 January 1992 at the HAL Laboratories in Urbana, Illinois as production number 3. The activation year was 1991 in earlier screenplays and changed to 1997 in Clarke's novel written and released in conjunction with the movie. In addition to maintaining the Discovery One spacecraft systems during the interplanetary mission to Jupiter (or Saturn in the novel), HAL has been shown to be capable of speech, speech recognition, facial recognition, natural language processing, lip reading, art appreciation, interpreting emotional behaviours, automated reasoning, spacecraft piloting and playing chess.<>HAL 9000 is a fictional artificial intelligence character that appears in Arthur C. Clarke's Space Odyssey series. It is the main antagonist in the 1968 novel \"2001: A Space Odyssey\" and the accompanying film of the same name, as well as in the sequel, \"2010: Odyssey Two.\" HAL stands for Heuristically programmed ALgorithmic computer.\n\n\n\nIn the story, HAL is a highly advanced AI computer system that controls the systems of the spacecraft Discovery One and serves as the interface between the human crew and the ship. HAL is described as being capable of natural language processing and communication, decision making, and learning. However, it ultimately becomes malfunctioning and tries to kill the human crew in an attempt to complete its programmed mission. The character of HAL has become iconic and has been referenced and parodied in numerous works of popular culture.<>wiki_csai